CarnEvil is a rail shooter arcade game using a light gun. The game is set in the fictional town of Greeley Valley, Iowa. The main character's, Jacob (Player 1) and Lisa (Player 2), join a tractor-drawn trailer called Spooky Sam's Ghost Tour on its path through a cemetery. According to an urban legend, if a golden token is inserted into the jester's mouth on top of the tombstone of someone by the name of Ludwig Von Tökkentäkker, a haunted amusement park will rise from the earth.    Jacob leaves the tour with his friend, Lisa, and approaches the tombstone to find a golden coin sitting in a small hole on the tombstone, and surprised, Jacob inserts the coin into the jester's mouth, resulting in the legendary undead carnival rising from the ground. Jacob and Lisa take 2 [shotgun or shotguns] from the shooting gallery at the entrance and use them to fight through hordes of monsters, zombies, and insects as they escape.    First, Jacob and Lisa go to the "Rickety Town". There, they hop on the "Slay Ride" and battle several demonic elves, zombies dressed as goofy dinosaurs and flying bug like things and see Betty trapped on a ferris wheel. Finally, they battle "Krumpas", a Santa Claus like monster.    Jacob and Lisa then go to the "Haunted House" and battle through hordes of zombies, spiders, ghosts and bats. They notice that Betty is being chased by zombies. Jacob and Lisa enter the building and encounter Hambone, a large Jason Vorhees-like creature with a gatling gun for a hand. Jacob and Lisa defeat Hambone and proceed through the building. They find Betty being kidnapped by a Giant Spider upstairs and go after them. After going through "the hall of hands", Jacob and Lisa fight Hambone once again, who now has a skull launching grenade launcher for a hand, and is defeated again. Jacob and Lisa go onto the rooftop only to be pushed off by the car into a grave with a tombstone saying "Rest in Pieces". Jacob and Lisa at last fight "Evil Marie" who, after being defeated, falls on a tombstone.    The 2 then visit the "Freak Show" where they encounter Conjoined Acrobatic Men, Flies and Maggots with human heads, 8 legged monkeys, and a giant demon called "Eye-clops", a cyclops with more than one eye. They kill the monster and enter "The Chamber of Horrors", where they find Betty in a torture device. They leave to a Colosseum and fight "Junior", a Frankenstein-Like baby (or through the options menu, they can fight "Deddy", a disfigured Teddy Bear).    Then, they enter the Big Top, and fight clowns and circus animals to reach the center ring, whence they are taken to Tökkentäkker's zeppelin to face Tökkentäkker and his jester Umlaut.    After defeating Tökkentäkker and surviving the explosion of his airship, Jacob, Lisa, and Betty awaken a few hours later in a pile of leaves in the cemetery, and in front of Tökkentäkker's tombstone. Jacob then sees the token in its slot and, ignoring Betty's protests, puts it into the jester's mouth for a repeat performance.
