Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom is an action games based on the movie of the same same in which the player takes on the role of action hero, Indiana Jones. Indy must infiltrate the lair of the evil Thuggee cult and their boss, Mola Ram, armed only with his trademark whip. The goal is to free the children the cult has kidnapped as slaves, recover the stolen relics known as "Sankara Stones" and escape from the temple.    The game that takes place over three different zones; the mines, a mine-cart chase and the temple. Players can choose to start the game on any one of three difficulty levels: easy, medium and hard. These are selected by entering the corresponding door.    The first zone is made up of ledges, ladders, slides and conveyor belts. Indy must free kidnapped children by finding their cages and whipping them open. Rattlesnakes and Thuggee guards patrol the ledges and must be avoided or whipped. Players must be careful to not fall from a ledge or a life is lost. Mola Ram himself occasionally appears and throws flaming hearts at Indy, these must be whipped or avoided.  The second zone is a recreation of the famous mine cart chase from the movie and the player must guide Indy's cart to the bottom of the mine, keeping ahead of enemy carts and avoiding dead ends and track-side enemies. The cart can be steered left and right to different tracks to avoid obstacles.  The third zone takes place in the temple itself and Indy must make his way to the altar and retrieve the Sankara stone. Indy must avoid guards, rattlesnakes and flaming hearts thrown by Mola Ram. Once a Sankara stone has been retrieved Indy must escape the temple through one of the four doors that opens.    The zones are then repeated twice more to collect the two remaining stones, although the lay-out and difficulty of the zones is different. Once all three Sankara stones have been collected, Indy must work his way through a final mine and mine-cart section, before making his escape on a rope bridge and facing Mola Ram for the final time.     
