  Power Drift is a fast-moving lap-based racing game in which players choose to race on one of five different circuits, each made up of five stages. The game's tracks have a 'roller-coaster' feel to them, with steep climbs, sudden drops and tight chicanes. It's also possible to fall from many of the higher, raised sections of a track, sending the car crashing to the ground below and losing valuable seconds. Each race takes place over four laps and players must finish in 3rd place or better to progress to the next stage. Finishing lower than third place results in a 'game over' but players can insert more credits to continue from the current stage.    In addition to its twisting, abstract courses, Power Drift also features a tilting axis; as players steer left and right, the screen display mirrors the controller's movements and tilts on its axis (in a fashion similar to another Sega game, "After Burner"). The game's difficulty level is determined by the type of car the player chooses to race with. The RED car (with bigger wheels) sets the difficulty level at 'easy', the BLUE car at 'normal', the ORANGE car at 'hard' and GREY car at 'hardest'.     The game's five circuits are labelled from A to E, with each having its own visual theme (for example, circuit A is city-based, circuit B desert-based, circuit C beach-based etc.)     The circuits and their corresponding stages are:  Course A - Springfield Ovalshape, Foofy Hilltop, Snowhill Drive, Octopus Oval, Curry De Parl  Course B - Swingshot City, Phantom Riverbend, Octangular Ovalshape, Charlotte Beach, Highland Spheres  Course C - Bum Beach, Jason Bendyline, Nighthawk City, Zanussi Island, Wasteman Freefall  Course D - Mexico Colours, Oxygen Desert, Jamie Road, Monaco Da Farce, Blow Hairpin  Course E - Aisthorpe Springrose Valley, Patterson Nightcity, Lydia Rightaway, Bungalow Ridgeway, Karen Longway    "Power Drift" features two hidden bonus courses. Finishing in first place on all tracks of courses B and D will allow players will get to race a special track using the bike from Sega's classic 1985 racer, "Hang-On". Finish first on all five tracks of any given group (A to E) and players will get to race a special track using the jet from "After Burner".     Each course has its own theme song, and they are as follows:  Course A - Side Street  Course B - Like the Wind  Course C - Silent Language  Course D - Adjustment Mind  Course E - Artistic Traps
