 Demolition Man is a game based on the 1993 movie by the same name. You play as John Spartan (Sly Stallone); thawed out from cryo-prison into a peaceful, Utopian future. Your task is to capture your nemesis, the psychopathic Simon Phoenix (Wesley Snipes), who has freed himself from prison and is wreaking havoc around town.The 3DO version adopts a unique multimedia approach to the concept of a movie tie-in. Cutscenes and clips from the film are used when appropriate, but Stallone and actual props from the film (such as his uniform) were also brought in to shoot bluescreen clips specifically for the game. Stallone is placed inside the CD environments, setting up the coming gameplay sequences, which loosely act as an expanded andquot;director's cutandquot; of events in the film.The game follows the key points of the movie's plot across five missions (with a handful of levels each). Levels mimic most major sequences from the film, with additional ones inspired by. Four distinct game types show up as you progress through the plot:Shooting Gallery sequences present a static screen with enemies popping up from behind cover. Hidden icons grant additional health or special bullet types. Either the standard controller or lightgun peripheral can be used here.Hand-to-Hand sequences present a side view of you and Phoenix brawling as in a standard fighter. Blocks, sweeps, and high and low attacks are mixed up to break through your opponent's defense and wear out his energy.First Person Shooter sequences place you in a maze of tunnels with numerous patrolling enemies. You have infinite ammo to quickly dispatch them. A tracking device can be displayed to show the general direction of Phoenix. Defeating him ends the level.The Driving sequence occurs once, and has you chasing Phoenix as he tries to flee in a stolen police cruiser. Avoid the other cars and hit power-up lanes to gain an advantage.Progress is saved with a password system, and victory or defeat both earn you one of a few special messages from Sly.
