The Seven Seas spread throughout the world. It is said that there is a monster for each of these seven seas. Ships are being attacked one after another. Sharks gather around monsters seeking human flesh. The ocean is not only a place of blessing but a place of terror. Defeat the violent gigantic monsters of the seven seas. An enormous bounty has been set for their heads. Brave youth go out to face the monsters. Set in an alternate steampunk world, a new civilization is flourishing in the seas. However, the sudden appearance of the Seven Great Monsters, accompanied by a number of lesser sea monsters and ordinary marine predators, have ravaged much of this newly-flourished civilization and, in addition, attacked the native marine life with increasing frequency. Frightened for their lives, humanity issues bounties on the monsters' heads as well secondary bounties on the minor sea monsters. The game follows two young underwater adventurers, Torel (Player 1) and Chris (player 2), as they head out to defeat the Seven Great Monsters of the Seven Seas. Gameplay  The Ocean Hunter is played by using two mounted turret-like Shock Guns on the arcade cabinet, which vibrate when "shot" to provide a feeling of realism. The game is capable of being played with either one or two people simultaneously. During the game, the players use the Shock Guns to aim at and shoot enemies while automatically traveling through the level on underwater scooters. The game is divided into seven stages. Each stage has its own enemies, sub boss(es) and a Great Monster boss to defeat at the end, all of which are usually based off of real-life marine animals. During the boss fights, there will be specific weak point(s) highlighted for the player to target. Firing upon these points three times defeats the boss and allows the player to advance to the next level. The player has a life meter consisting of 3 Life Points which decreases by either taking damage from enemies or by firing at friendly NPC divers, regardless of situation. Health can only be restored by obtaining health units from rescuing other divers. There are treasure chests throughout each stage that award bonus points if fired at. 
