Tawala's Last Redoubt is the fourth and final game in the Galactic Saga. In the previous game, Galactic Revolution, the emperor Tawala was ousted from power by his former fleet commander, Julian du Buque. Now the fallen monarch has fled to the planet Farside. Due to unusual solar conditions, Farside is cut off from the rest of the galaxy. Now it falls to the planet's inhabitants, and the insurrectionist leader Benthi, to finish Tawala once and for all.  The player takes control of Benthi and commands her forces and agents. The ultimate goal is to attack and take Tawala's redoubt, located at the other end of the map from Benthi's camp. Resources at the beginning are meager, though: Benthi only has 100 credits, 100 troops and 15 weapons at her disposal. She must gather the resources of Farside's various chiefs to stand a real chance. Communication with the chiefs (or any friendlies not in Benthi's camp) is done by sending messengers. The chiefs can be asked for money, troops or arms, and be given money as an incentive. The messengers can be asked to threaten reprisals in the case a chief refuses a request - not acting on such a threat might damage Benthi's reputation with all of Farside's chiefs, though.  How a chief deals with an offer can be deduced from personality dossiers provided by Benthi's chief of intelligence, Paoli. Paoli also is responsible for sending out spies. They can be sent to any village on the map and will report on any movement of Tawala's troops. It is also possible to send them into the redoubt itself. Risk of capture is high, and an agent cannot be recalled from the redoubt, but he will give a full report on Tawala's overall strength. Next to troop strength and movements, agents will also provide additional information, like the locations of a hidden arms cache or the lair of independent war chief Vyl-ourmani, as well as the passwords needed to access those locations.  Regarding troops there are two options: they can be sent to only secure a town, meaning they only fight if Tawala's forces are present. In the case of uncooperative chiefs, they can also be sent to loot &amp; pillage, in which case they attack the local militia, and, if successful, secure any loot they might find.   Should Benthi's camp come under threat (as indicated by agents' reports), it can be moved. If Benthi is still present when Tawala's forces attack, the game is over. It is necessary to move the camp in any case, because the redoubt can only be attacked when Benthi has gathered her forces in the town closest to it.
