You have entered the grounds of a Circus and the aim is to complete three tents and the Big Top within a time limit to move to the next level. Each tent is made up of various single screens and each need to be completed before you attempt another tent or the Big Top in any order. You start at the gate of the grounds viewed from an elevated angle and you attempt to make your way to the first tent or Big Top but there are people who walk in the direction you move and if you touch a person then you start back at the gate wasting valuable seconds. The three tents and the Big Top involve the following tasks: Tent One: Viewed from the side there are four screens that have to be navigated by getting from the left of the screen to the right. Each screen has falling barrels, moving pipes, moving blocks and belts that move up and down carrying boxes. If you touch any obstacle then you start back on the left on the screen you are on. Tent Two: You are in a maze viewed from a high elevated angle and you must get from the left of the screen to the right while avoiding ghosts, flying arrows and flying flames. The ghosts are wandering around the maze and have to be avoided or it's back to the left of the screen. If you are in the path of an arrow or flame then you can press the fire button to receive limited immunity. Tent Three: A 1st person shooting game where you have to shoot as many balloons and plates as you can while the border slowly disappears. Big Top: Here is your chance to perform three acts on three side view screens in front of a crowd where you can trapeze, do the highwire and be a human cannonball. The trapeze sees you try to get from the left of the screen to the right by swinging and catching three swings. The highwire sees you trying to get from the left ladder to the right by walking on the highwaire while avoiding birds by jumping over them. The human cannonball sees you trying to catch the rope of a balloon by firing the cannon at the right moment. If you burst the balloon or fail any act then you start on the left of the screen on the act you are playing.
