In 1996 the first Rim Race was competed for on a specially built track called a Rim in the Arizona Desert which was 20km in diameter and 60 km in length after eight years in construction. Over the following two weeks, over 1000 drivers competed with many deaths and in the final race, three drivers were left to compete which was eventually won by Seya Alkli. Over the next 45 years the race took on many forms and locations with it being shown all over the Solar System by one TV network, and finally in 2045 the race is shown in the form people (and aliens) know. There are 12 Rims surrounding a manufactured planet called Devs which orbits Jupiter and each Rim is 100km in diameter and 300km in length. You play as a driver trying to make his way in this violent driving sport by driving as fast as you can, destroying other drivers and avoiding being killed yourself. As well as the main competitors, there are drivers called Noids who are rookie drivers hoping to survive to become real competitors. These are the drivers you have to kill to keep up quotas set by the race officials. Any money you make during your time allows you to purchase better cars and weapons which include flame throwers, missiles and rail guns. The three types of races you can compete in are: Time Run: This is a race against the clock as you try to beat a qualifying time as well as finish the race. Any vehicles destroyed increases the bounty on your head but increases the money you make as well. Killing Race: You keep driving until you reach your quota of Noids killed Tag Race: A random vehicle is declared 'It' and must touch another vehicle as a crosshair constantly damages the 'It' vehicle until it is destroyed or the 'It' is passed on. If a vehicle is destroyed while 'It', then another vehicle is chosen randomly. The game is viewed from the side at an elevated angle with the screen scrolling while you move your vehicle. You must always drive excitingly or aggressively because if you don't, the track will turn red and a crosshair appears trying to destroy you. You have to start destroying Noids or drive faster to make the crosshair disappear. As you drive trying to destroy vehicles and staying alive you must also keep an eye on your fuel and damage meters which can be increased and fixed after each race. The ultimate aim for all drivers is to reach The Fury which happens at a certain part of the track and a certain speed which makes a vehicle disappear. No one knows what happens at this point so can you be the first to experience this and tell the tale.
