Gerry the Germ has failed to obtain his Stinkploma and so has been thrown out of the Illtitute of Infectology but far from feeling sorry for himself, Gerry has decided the only way back in is to infect a human and prove he deserves a Stinkploma. You play the role of Gerry and you must complete five single screens representing parts of the body in an attempt to make your human very ill. The five screens are: The Lungs: You must collect five cans of oxygen which are produced by four red blood cells which move in a set pattern viewed from the side. When the cells touch a can of oxygen appears and needs collecting before it disappears. There is also a white blood cell roaming the screen and if you touch the red or white blood cells then you go to the bladder. Collect all five and it's on to the kidney. The Kidney: Viewed from the side at an elevated angle you must move about the screen waiting for kidney beans to appear to be collected. Other creatures move about the screen and if any are touched then your sent to the bladder. Collect enough kidney beans and it's on to the stomach. The Stomach: This time the screen is a platform game and you must move about the platforms climbing ladders and avoiding other creatures moving about the screen. You need to collect a bottle of acid to dissolve a asprin to prevent your human from recovering. Touch any creatures or allow the asprin to work and your sent back to the kidney. The Pancreas: Gerry is now on a train carriage moving through the pancreas carrying medical supplies. Viewed from the back of the train at an elevated angle in a split screen, you must move up the train and infect the medical supplies before going into the drivers compartment. A conductor and white blood cells move about the carriage and if touched then you are sent back to the stomach. If you infect the medical supplies and reach the drivers compartment, the other part of the split screen appears viewed from the side at an elevated angle and here you must throw coal at the driver unseen. The driver thinks this is the fireman and has a fight with him thus stopping the train. Completing this part sends you to the final body part, the heart. The Heart: The screen is viewed from the side at an elevated angle with the human's heart at the right of the screen on a bridge. You must walk along the bridge avoiding various creatures and if you touch one you must go back to the pancreas. Reach the heart and you infect it and you have won the game. A bonus screen as the bladder appears if you fail to complete the lungs or kidneys and has Gerry in a rowing boat viewed from the side. You must collect a toilet roll and send it to a dripping tap to block it. If you allow the tap to keep dripping then you fill the bladder and you sink to the bottom and back to the lungs. There is a sea monster and a bird moving on the screen. The sea monster can be hit to send him to the bottom of the bladder for a short time but the bird has to be avoided or if touched then you go back to the lungs.
