The evil forces of Kerllis IX are causing havoc across the Universe by invading planets and overrunning them. The leader of the Kerllis IX, The Mighty Alien Presence and some of his force called Boolagrops have invaded a planet but haven't realised it is home to a superhero. You play the role of the superhero as you attempt to rid your planet of the invading force. The game is split into three levels with each one viewed from the side and the first two levels are horizontal scrolling shooters. The final level is a single screen shooter. There are seven skill levels (00 - 06) to choose from at the start of the game. Your first task is to open a portal to allow you to collect items required to face the evil leader, and to open it you have to collect seven Daggers of Power and place them in the entrance to the portal. You can only carry one dagger at a time and you collect it from the far left of the level and carry it to the far right of the level. As you cross the surface of the planet there are waves of various aliens trying to kill you and if you touch one then you lose one of five lives. You are armed with a laser bolt to destroy the aliens as they home in on you. Once a dagger is placed then you have to fly back to the far left of the level facing a different wave of aliens and repeat the whole process again. All seven daggers have to be placed within a time limit or it is game over. The second level sees you having to collect five crosses and five pieces of garlic but the problem is that they are invisible. You fly across the landscape again from left to right or right to left as you search for these items. When you are near an item then the bottom of the screen changes colour and you are able to fly in that area until you find the required item. Once again, waves of aliens attempt to destroy you but you are still armed with you laser bolt. The final level is a single screen as you now attempt to kill The Mighty Alien Presence with one shot. As the leader flies around the screen, his minions also fly around but are destructible so need avoiding while attempting to shoot the leader. You only have one chance and if you die then it is game over.
