It's Only Rock 'n' Roll is a management game where you are the member of a new Rock Group and your aim is to become famous and get 1000 popularity points, make one million pounds and have three status symbols like a yacht and castle. After naming your new band and selecting your skill level (1-3) you are presented with a main menu which includes: Status Report: Here you have your happiness, energy, time elapsed in months, status symbols owned, manager, popularity points, fan clubs, money, royalty rate, bank loan and interest. You start with 1000 energy and all your actions decrease this figure. Write Song: The computer will write a song for you and then rate it and you can decide to use the song or receive another one. Tour: You have the choice of four destinations, Britain, Europe, USA and Japan and when selected you are given the cost of the tour and how much money you can make. You are then told how many concerts you will play and you decide how much energy to place for each concert. Each concert is shown to you telling you how it went, how much money you are making and your popularity. A small animated scene can be watched of your performance. Concert: You are presented with various venues with street, pub or nightclub as choices as first , but as you progress you can work your way up to play at Madison Square Gardens. After the concert you are told your profit and popularity before having the choice to watch the performance. As well as concerts going well, occasionally you can have them cancelled due to weather, illness or even a bomb scare. Manager: You can hire a manager with each one having a different percentage of how much money they take. You then have the choice of firing him, promoting the group, getting a record contract and borrowing money. Promoting the band can involve starting a fan club, giving to charity or giving T-Shirts away. Newspaper headlines that appear can tell you that the manager is involved in fraud and when fired can tell you what he was up to. Get Status Symbol: Here you can bid for large expensive items like yachts, Scottish Castles and villas. Make Record: Once you have a record contract and a certain amount of popularity you can make a record when you have a song to record. The record company will put so much money in to promote it and you can only have one record out in the shops at a time. Rest: When your energy is low or empty you can rest to receive 250 for every month. You decide how many months you want taking into consideration you can lose money and lose popularity. As you progress you receive Newspaper headlines like a certain DJ likes you, record is doing well or the bad things like manager involved in fraud or you are caught with drugs.
