The Golden City is being run by the evil Ilfreet who lives in an inner sanctum surrounded by guards. Problem is, the only man who has the magic to capture and hold Ilfreet is a wise man who is being held in a dungeon deep in the inner sanctum. A hero is needed to help capture Ilfreet and free the city and you play just the hero needed for this quest. The game consists of four levels which combine a shoot-em-up and platform action with two difficulty levels and each level needs completing to succeed in your quest. You have five lives and if you touch any creatures or guards then you lose one. The four levels are: Level One: The first part of the game is a horizontal side scrolling shooter with the screen scrolling from left to right constantly. You must fly on your magic carpet to the Golden City either avoiding the spirits that fly in the air or destroy them with your fireball. To use the fireball, you hold down the fire button and can move it anywhere on the screen but you can't control the magic carpet. Once you arrive at the city you can land and your hero enters. Level Two: You have found the outside of the inner sanctum and the only way you can enter is through a window, but only one window allows you to enter. The level is a platform game and is shown on the whole screen. Between the columns of the windows are ladders and you must climb up and down them passing all windows until you find the right one. A cross appears if it is the wrong one and as you search you have to avoid touching any guard that is moving around the screen. Level Three: This level is another platform game shown on the whole screen as you try to get to the entrance of the dungeon while avoiding the guards but this time you can shoot them with a fireball. As you attempt to get to the entrance you have to light all the torches as well on all four levels connected by steps. Level Four: This level is the same as level three but now you can see the prison holding the wise man at the bottom of the screen. As well as getting to his prison you have to find the key to open his door as well as move a pot all the way to his prison by pushing it. This pot is the only thing that can contain ilfreet.
