The power to Earth is all supplied by one huge power station that orbits the planet but a problem has arisen, a bug in the computer system has mutated all the computer circuits and made them aware of themselves and worst of all, became alive. It has decided for reasons still unknown, turned all the power off which has made all Flexible Robot Caterpillars (FRC) go berserk and overrun cities which has left them uninhabitable except for a few aggressive alien species. FRC's are nuclear powered and were originally produced to transport huge amounts of cargo and people but was later used for military purposes. You have been chosen to recapture the Capital City by destroying the FRC's in a tank over three levels with the ultimate aim to destroy the city which will remove the aliens so it can be rebuilt. The game is viewed from above with the screen showing a small part of the level which scrolls in various directions as you move. There are eight FRC's on a level and in their heads their carry fuel rods which are indestructible but the tails can be destroyed by blasting it with your laser. Once the tail has been destroyed you can collect the fuel rod which automatically appears in the nuclear reactor. Once all eight rods are in the reactor it is destroyed and you move to the next level. As well as the FRC's you must avoid or shoot the alien species that have made their home there. To help you in your mission you are equipped with a laser as well as smart-bombs, heat seeking missiles and a shield. The laser's power is limited and when empty will only stun the aliens but can still destroy the tails of the FRC's. More laser power can be collected as well as your other weapons and shield, and are placed behind walls which can be destroyed, even with limited laser power. Your other weapons will destroy the aliens but will not destroy any FRC's tails. If you are touched by a FRC or an alien then you lose part of your shield and if your shield has gone then you need to get out of the tank by an escape pod. You have three tanks to complete your mission but if you are touched with no shield then it is game over.
