Motorcycle 500 is a managerial game where you are the manager of a motorcycle racing team who are competing in the World Grand Prix over various seasons. The aim is to have a rider as the champion as well have your team win the Constructors Championship. You first start the game having to select the team you want to manage and the teams main sponsor with each paying you money for the season ahead. You then need to select two riders to race for you with each rider receiving a yearly wage from your team. Once you have made your selections it's on to the main menu and various options to choose from as you try to become World Champion. Before you race you are able to see the season's races ahead as well as the standings for your riders and team. A mechanic is needed to be hired and you have a choice of eight with each one having to be paid for a season. With your new mechanic you can put your bikes into the workshop to improve various aspects of it like condition, engine, steering and power by buying the parts needed. Once you are happy with your bikes you can now prepare the bikes for the next race by selecting the tyres, how much fuel to put in the bikes and the most important one, paying a fee to enter the race. Once the fee has been paid you can practise the next circuit to get the best lap times and a higher place on the starting grid. Gambling is allowed and you can place bets on all the riders who you think will win the race. Once you are happy with your selections it is time for the next race. Here you are given details about the next track and the position of all the riders on the starting grid. The race itself is text with the position of the first ten riders shown and a small animation in the bottom left corner showing the riders ride past. As the riders change position you have details on both your riders where you can see their performance as well as how much fuel they have. You can call the riders into the Pit-Stop to re-fuel, change tyres or repair any damage. Once the race is over, you see the race result before going back to the main menu and prepare for the next race. Before you start the game you are able to edit all the names of the teams, sponsors and riders.
