Orm and Cheep: Narrow Squeaks is a game based on the British children's puppet TV show from the 80s on CITV, where the two main characters are friends, Orm (Worm) and Cheep (Bird). The game is split into four mini-games with the first three single-screen side-view games and the last one is a vertically-scrolling game where the screen scrolls upwards constantly viewed from an elevated angle. Before you start the game you have to play a Reaction test to find out the difficulty of the game. The words Orm and Cheep are at the start of the screen and move down one at a time. You have to stop each word as close to a line by pressing a key. After each game has been played you are giving a score by removing squares from a picture and the better your score, the more of the picture you see. The four games are played with the keyboard with just one key press to play and the games are: Cheep's Game: Orm is having a lie-in in bed and so Cheep has decided to help put the dishes away by picking them up and placing them on top of each other. Some cups are sitting in the bottom left of the screen and the next dish, which is a saucepan appears on the screen. Cheep moves around the screen constantly in one direction and pressing a key changes his direction by 90 degrees. You must keep changing direction to position Cheep above the dish before you keep changing his direction again to place it on top of the other dishes. if you hit the sides of the screen or another dish then the dish disappears and you have to get it again. Once all the dishes have been stacked then they collapse and Orm is woken up Crow's Game: Now awake, Orm decides to go for a morning stroll but Crow has spotted Orm and trapped him behind a tree. Cheep, Mouse, Snail and Mole have come to the rescue and the way to get rid of Crow is to dance in front of him. You watch a sequence of the animals dancing one at a time before you keep watching the same sequence. When you notice a wrong part of the sequence you press a key and this moves Crow a small distance up the screen. Each time Crow moves up the screen then you watch a new sequence and Orm is safe when Crow has moved off the screen. Rat's Game: Orm is safe but Cheep, Snail and Mouse are now trapped by Rat in a hollow tree trunk with Rat guarding the exit in the top right corner. Hedgehog has appeared and will try to get his friends out of the trunk one at a time, by protecting them with his spikes from the bottom left of the screen. Each animal takes it in turns to flash and pressing a key now has that animal moving around the other animal in 90 degree turns. Once you are happy with their position, pressing a key makes both animals flash one at a time again. While you are moving, Rat moves one place at a time around the screen and if he touches Hedgehog's friend then both move back to the bottom left of the screen. Orm's Game: After the morning excitement, Orm is exhausted and so has decided to go to bed. While Orm is sleeping the surrounding area and his home has been flooded and so Orm finds himself floating along trying to get to dry land. To succeed at the game, Orm has to steer his bed with his tail while avoiding obstacles and knocking Crow, Rat and Cat into the water off their branches. To do this, Orm has to hit the branch from the side and once all three have been dunked into the water then the game has been completed.
