The big and nasty Americana monster has come along and eaten up Mastertronic's pinball table where the Slamball family resides, a living clan of ball bearings with a happy deposition. The pinball table is inside the monster's stomach and the balls are in a bit of trouble. The pinball table is still operational, and since the monster's stomach knows that the family is still inside, it has decided to eject them one by one. The hole at the bottom of the table, which normally recovers the ball, instead slides down into the monster's digestive tract. Luckily for you, as a member of the secret society of prevention of cruelty to pinballs, have gained radio remote control of the table, and you must now stop at nothing to prevent any of the Slamball family from getting into the Americana Monster's digestive tract. The whole game revolves around a vertically scrolling window of four screens that form the entire length of the table. As you launch the ball, you need to decide on the power at which the ball is ejected into the playfield. Four sets of flippers are positioned throughout the table; with the left and right flippers being controlled by pushing left or right on the joystick, respectively. All the elements of a real pinball table, such as bumpers and rollbacks, are included here. Even a nudge is implemented in times of extreme danger. Hitting nudge causes the whole table to wobble, and nudge is useful when a member of the Slamball family is in danger of entering the digestive tract. If the nudge gets overused, then the flippers are disabled until the ball reaches the Monster's alimentary canal. Around the table are a number of enzymes which are held in groups of up to four. If a slamball comes into contact with these enzymes, the enzymes themselves disappear, and when an entire group is destroyed, a blob appears. If a slamball destroys this blob before it destroys itself by hitting the table's walls, the score multiplier is increased. If all the enzymes are destroyed, the level is complete and a bonus for any balls left is awarded.
