Alternative World Games Is a series of mini games based around the theme of an Olympiad for the non-sporting minded. It is intended to be a spoof on all serious sporting simulations. There are eight games in this compilation, some are one player and some are two player. The minimum number of players names that can be entered is two, the game setup insists that a second player is named because thee are two player games. The maximum number of names that can be entered is six. The game menu selection screen has been designed to look like a bank of nine TV screens. Each TV is displaying a sporting channel name. The player selects the channels to be played and presses 'Fire'. This causes an animation to commence on the appropriate TV. The player can select either one or all eight games. Channel nine is used to allow the player to select between competition and practice modes. At the end of each game the scores are displayed. After the last game has been played the game displays the medal table, there can be a long wait while the game reads to the end of the tape to find this program. When the selected game(s) have been played the medal table is displayed and the gaming session is over. If further game-play is desired, e.g. for a rematch, then the whole game must be reloaded and the player selection process has to be repeated. The eight games are;The Sack Race This race takes place in Mexico. The objective is to be the first across the finish line. Speed is achieved by pressing left / right alternately while using the up / down keys to steer around open man-hole covers which are the obstacles in this event. Players can play against each other or the computer. The Pile Of Plates This race takes place in Pisa, Italy. Each player takes it in turn to compete. before starting the up / down keys are used to set the number of plates to be carried. Once set the same keys are used to determine the speed at which the character moves, too fast and plates will fall. A countdown timer starting at 100 is used to ensure that the race is completed in a reasonable time. When the characters are moving the left / right keys can be used to move the characters arms to counteract the wobble. Points are scored for speed of completion, number of plates carried and points are lost for plates dropped, thus a player who carries eight plates across successfully will score more points than a player who started with 30 and finished with 14. Boot Throwing This event takes place in Italy by the Colosseum. Each player has three turns to see who can throw the boot the furthest. There is a choice of a throwing the boot empty, which means it's lighter so the player has longer to build up speed, or a boot full of water, which is heavier but takes more effort. The player uses the left / right action keys to make the character swing the boot around in a circle. A power indicator shows how much speed has built up, swing for too long however and your character will get tired and lose that turn. At an appropriate point in the swing the player presses 'FIRE'. When all players have thrown the furthest throw wins. River Jump Each player has three attempts to pole-jump the river. The character starts with their pole up in the air. When the 'FIRE' key is pressed the character automatically starts to run, the player has no control over the speed. However, the pole is heavy and will tend to droop, if it hits the ground while the character is still running then they will fall over. To be successful the character must approach the river with the pole in a (near) horizontal position, if this achieved the character will automatically dip their pole into the river and the player must hit 'FIRE' again to make them release their grip on the pole and, hopefully, land on the other side. Pole Climbing This takes place in a castle courtyard and it is a two player game. Players can play each other or they can play against the computer. It is a time limited game where the object is to climb to the top of the pole, collect a bottler of champagne, and safely slide back down inside 5 minutes. The player makes their character climb by repeatedly pressing a specific sequence of up / fire / down. For every failed sequence the character slides down the pole, too many slides and the character will fall off., Descending too quickly with the champagne will cause the player to drop the bottle and fail.  Run Up The Wall This game takes place in Venice. Players take it in turns to have three runs at the wall. As they reach the wall they must jump, this causes the character to run up the wall. A further action key is required to place the hat on the wall and, if all keys are pressed done correctly, the character's hat will stick to the wall and the highest hat wins. The player does not, however, start with a hat. In their run up to the wall they must time their approach so that they are beneath a passing parrot who drops one hat per run. A jump without a hat does not score.  Pillow Fight This game is set in Venice, Italy. It is a two player game which starts with the players pairing off against each other or against the computer. The two characters are on board a gondola and must bash each other with pillows until time expires or one falls in the water. There are specific key combinations for right / left / overhead strikes and blocks. Points are scored for successful strikes. The player who falls into the water loses. Each player fights only once, the player with the highest number of points wins  Pogo Stick This game is set in Greece among the ruins of a ancient temple. It is a timed event. each player takes turns to pogo around the ruins popping balloons. Points are scored for each balloon burst and the course must be completed in nine minutes, fifty-nine seconds.
