A prince has laid eyes on Princess Kelly, but her father, King Otto, is convinced that he is not worthy enough of marrying her. To prove him wrong, King Otto sets the prince a series of seven tasks that he needs to accomplish if he is to win her hand in marriage: 1. The prince has to survive a night outside the castle. When the sun sets behind the hills, hordes of mortified-looking zombies appear from both sides of the screen, and in order not to be eaten, the prince must shoot them with his arrows until the sun rises. 2. The prince has been placed somewhere in Dabbit Wood where an evil wizard materializes, fires at him, then dematerializes. With little time in between, he must shoot the wizard the moment the wizard appears. 3. Four sacred stones need to be recovered from Vampire Mountain. Bats will come out from a cave and fly around the prince in an attempt to stop him from completing his task. 4. Devil Worshipers from the Temple of Demons have been sent to Stonehenge to wipe out the prince. These worshipers have the ability to fire in all directions. The prince can claim victory if he kills a certain amount of monks. 5. The ancient spirit stone of the Runes of Tygorth is freeing dangerous spirits, and needs to be destroyed. The stone will take a few hits by the prince, giving time for the spirits to fire at the prince if he gets too close to it. 6. Ritual stones have been placed in the village of the Northern Barbarians and the prince has the task of retrieving five right ones. Meanwhile, vicious barbarians emerge from the cottage and try to stop the prince from stealing them. 7. The prince is so close to marrying his love. All he needs to do is to get to the wedding ceremony, held at the Castle of the Birdmen aptly named because aggressive birds will appear who will swoop down and fire at the prince before he has the chance to get inside. If the prince successfully completes all of these tasks, then King Otto will let her daughter be his wife. If he fails, King Otto will not agree to the marriage until all tasks are accomplished.
