There you was, The White Viper, out walking with a Princess, when a demon appeared and whisked her away. You tried in vain to fight off the attack but sadly it failed and along with your armour and sword, they have been taken to an evil wizard's castle. You must now cross the land, enter the castle and rescue the Princess in this five part game. The game is viewed from the side at an elevated angle and you must complete the five parts collecting your sword and armour on the way to face the wizard and take the Princess home and marry her. The first part sees you attempting to fight off the attack from various demons with your sword. You must stay close to the Princess and when a demon appears you must kill it. You start the game with two lives but for every demon killed you get an extra life. Every time you fail to kill a demon then the Princess is taken, then your armour before finally your sword is taken away. Once you have seven lives though then the Princess and possessions will be taken anyway. Part two is in a field and now a horse can be seen and needs to be captured so you can ride to the castle. Every time you approach the horse though, it runs aways so you have to collect fences at the bottom of the screen to try to fence it in. As you place the fences, demons appear and take parts of the fences away. Once you capture the horse you can now ride onwards towards the castle. Part three now scrolls from left to right and as you ride you approach a swamp. On the swamp are islands and you have to jump on your horse on the islands to get to the other side. Also on the islands are your sword and pieces of armour which need collecting but only if a piece is flashing. If your sword or pieces of armour aren't flashing then you can't collect that item. If you fall into the water you lose a life and there is also a swamp fairy that occasionally appears and picks you up and places you back to the start of the swamp. Part four now has you outside the castle ready to be entered but your horse is very hungry, so you must allow the horse to find and eat 30 clumps of grass before you can enter the castle. As you ride the horse about the screen, cannonballs are fired towards you, so you must dodge these while trying to let your horse eat the grass. If you are hit by a cannonball then you lose a life. The fifth and final part of the game has you inside the castle, inside a great hall with ten doors. Behind the doors are the Princess but also the evil wizard and his demons. You must open each door to find the Princess but if it is the wizard or a demon then you must kill it before they can cast a spell or you lose a life if you are hit by the spell. Once you find the Princess then you have completed the game and you now can get married and become King.
