Wonder Classic is a golfing game where you will use different characters with specific abilities to your advantage. For example the character, Reiko Nagase nullifies the effects of wind, most others have certain benefits to certain types of shot. There are two starting characters and twenty-two unlockable and downloadable characters. 
 
The game consists of the following modes: 
 
1. Training: play whatever field you like as long as you like. 
 
2. Character Get: you'll challenge your way through ten golfers, after you beat them you'll be able to play as them elsewhere in the game 
 
3. Stroke: play against the score 
 
4. Match: play by hole, each time golfer gets a hole he will go "1UP" while his opponent will go "1DOWN". Whoever is "UP" in the end wins. If the "DOWN" player cannot win given the number of remaining holes then the game will end. 
 
5. Mini Battle: Driving Contest: a match contest where the golfers will only drive. 
 
6. Mini Battle: Near-Pin: a match contest that will involve only shots near the pin. 
 
7. Mini Course: you play on a 3-par 9 hole course, you may play against a computer if you so wish. 
 
8. Tour: 32 contestants enter the tour, who will win? You'll have to hone your Wonder Classic golfing skills to best this. Winning in tour mode will unlock new courses. 
 
9. Net Tour: this mode will allow you the download the best 32 Tour scores that have been uploaded via the WonderGate. And then play a tour against those people, not the real people but against their scores, in a tour. You can also upload you own scores to compare them online. 
 
The gameplay of Wonder Classic includes the ability to use the Y-buttons to augment just how your club will come in contact with the ball, to subtlety alter its trajectory. You'll also have six "Power Shots" which will have to be carefully conserved in each match. 
 
Using the WonderGate you could get new clubs as well as stat altering equipment, such as gloves. You also could get new characters and courses through the WonderGate as well. This feature also allowed you to see your score as part of a "global" ranking. 
