Yume Koujou Doki Doki Panic  (translated as "Dream Factory: Heart-Pounding Panic") is a Japan-only video game developed by Nintendo in cooperation with Fuji Television for the Family Computer Disk System to promote its event called Yume Koujou '87 (translates to Dream Factory '87).It was later released outside of Japan in an altered format under the name Super Mario Bros. 2, since the original Japanese Super Mario Bros. sequel, Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels, was deemed too similar to the original and too difficult for overseas players. Eventually, the altered Mario version of Doki Doki Panic was released in Japan as well, under the title Super Mario USA. The story starts with two chidren, the young twins Piki and Poki, peacefully reading a story book. However, they accidentally tear off the last page of the book - little did they know that the book is actually magic! The evil Mamu suddenly appears, and his huge three-fingered hand pulls them into a quirky dream world. The goal of Doki Doki Panic is to help the whole family (namely Imajin, Lina and their parents Mama and Papa) rescue their poor children kidnaped by the evil king lizard. Each member has its own strengths and weaknesses - Imaji is a balanced character whereas Lina is fairly light weight and can effortlessly hover and fly over short distances, but she is really slow at picking up items. Papa is the strongest of the group and can throw enemies and items really far, whereas Mama can jump higher than anyone. As aforementioned, each character can carry enemies, items, and especially radishes and other vegetables that can be pulled out of the ground and used as lethal weapons. The game features a myriad of other items, such as bombs (self explanatory), Power blocks (similar to Mario Bros's POW blocks that kill all enemies on screen), Stars (temporary invincibility), keys (to unlock doors), Hearts (extra health) or the mysterious magic lamps that open doors to the Dark World - mirror areas where our heroes can find special items or heart containers. Doki Doki Panic follows a story book structure, and is made out of seven chapters (areas) and twenty pages (levels). Interestingly, although the player can play the Doki Doki Panic with any character, it has to eventually defeat the evil Mamu with all four to finally beat the game (the player can separately save each character's progress).