London is falling. Are you prepared? The Last Blight is upon us. It was foretold. For the second time in history, a great plague has shrouded London in a fog of death. Big Ben tolls as thousands of unprepared die, or worse, are infected by a sickness more gruesome than death.

You’re still breathing, for now, but how long will you survive the labyrinth of London’s streets and underground canals, abandoned by the outside world and surrounded by infected? The horrifying remains of humanity, ravaged by the terrifying disease, are shuffling through the streets, waiting at every turn to prey on your living flesh. 

The nail-biting survival experience of ZombiU™ has been upgraded for download on next-gen consoles and PC. ZOMBI takes the power of the latest generation of hardware to bring you a new level of horror. Test your will to survive, but beware: death is permanent, and one wrong move can cause you to lose everything.
Features

PURE SURVIVAL HORROR 
Resources are scarce, your enemies are numerous, and you never know when you’ll find more weapons, ammunition, first aid, or food. How you allocate your resources determines if you live or die. 

WITH PERMADEATH, EVERYTHING IS AT STAKE 
Survival is not guaranteed. Once you die, your character becomes infected and joins the horde of undead shambling through London. You’ll come back as an entirely new character and try to survive, again, with your first mission being to retrieve your previous character’s supplies. 

BUG-OUT BAG 
Your bug-out bag holds all your possessions, tools, inventory, first aid kits, maps, and more. Don’t get distracted, as zombies can attack you at any moment. If you die, your bag stays with your old character, who is now a zombie. Will you risk it all to get your bag back, or start scavenging anew? 

LONDON CALLING 
Survive in a city steeped in grisly history, royal secrets, and bloody tales. Navigate through the medieval Tower of London, stately Buckingham Palace, and modern streets swarming with mobs of the undead. 

THE UNDEAD RETURN 
Combining the horror of ZombiU with refined gameplay and upgraded graphics, ZOMBI brings the survivalist first-person shooter to next-gen consoles and PC. Adapted to a single screen experience, the active pause system still makes you vulnerable while scanning your environment, completing mini-games or searching your inventory & equipment.
