 Chuzzle Deluxe is a tile matching puzzle game with 4 different game modes and trophies for special events.  Basically, you have a 6x6 rows big screen, filled with different colored Chuzzles (some sort of pets). Unlike other tile matching games, you don't move the tile (in this case the Chuzzle), but you actually move the entire row so that you get 3 same colored Chuzzles in a group. They then "explode" and the gap is filled with new Chuzzles. Row moving is possible due to the fact that the rows (both horizontal and vertical) are "round", meaning that moving the outer left Chuzzle one tile to the left will result in appearing of it at the outer right position.  The four different game modes are: Classic, Speed, Zen and Mind Bender.  Classic works like explained above, but you will also face mega Chuzzles (2x2 tiles big) which can't move out of the screen and locks, which will lock the two rows where it is located. Locks can be destroyed by making a match (mega Chuzzles by the way too). The game mode is level based. Just score as much points as needed for the level and you proceed with the next one. If you run out of possible matches, you can scramble the screen (basically this equals the lost of a life).  Speed is like Classic, but you play against the clock. With each match, the counter is set a bit back, but as soon as the counter reaches the top, one Chuzzle will be locked. This goes until no moves are possible. Once you completed the level, the locks are reset.  Zen is a relaxing mode. No locks and no clock.  In Mind Bender, you job is to recreate a certain given pattern with your 36 Chuzzles. No clock and no special level order required to play.  For the first three game modes, if you don't know any further, you can buy a hint (reduction of the score).  The major feature of the game are the trophies. In the Trophy Room, you see 22 placeholders for trophies, which will be awarded as soon as you met the requirements. Those are for example for seven-step cascades (you make one match, which will trigger six additional matches), beating 10 levels of Classic, making a six tiles long match, or playing a game without using a hint and much much more.
