 In this fast-paced, arcade-like game, players choose to be one of the four available characters (with different difficulty levels) to help doctor Iggle free the small furry creatures known as Iggles. They have been trapped by the evil Zoogs who locked them up in bubbles. In 150 levels divided over ten chapters, players need to rescue the Iggles from their cages in different mazes and bring them to safety.  The game offers two main modes to play. In Adventure Game, the Iggle can move around in the maze and walk over the bubbles with his trapped friends to get them to trail behind him (somewhat similar to the Snake games). The Iggles come in four colours and need to be delivered at the transportation point with the corresponding colour. The colour of the trail can be in any order, but identically coloured Iggles forming a single line provide more points, leading to combos. The enemy Zoogs come in different flavours and try to trap the player's character. Some simply walk around, while others have fixed patterns or shoot bubbles. When they touch the trail, it is cut off, sending the Iggles loose or trapping them again. To complete a level, the player has to free all Iggles.  New techniques and features are introduced gradually through short tutorial sessions with doctor Iggle between the missions. The main Iggle can collect letters to earn extra lives, walk with the correct number of Iggles in the trail through a chain bonus pad to unlock diamonds, walk into a pad to sort the colours, freeze enemies, shortly activate electricity to hunt the Zoogs, and more. He can also get a short burst of speed, but this needs to be recharged. After completing a set of levels, a bonus level is played where a hidden bomb and an extra life is introduced, along with secret passages. These levels have a time limit. The Iggle can be controlled both using the keyboard or the mouse.  The second mode, Retro Game, keeps most of the game elements, but resembles Pac-Man in gameplay. Instead of forming a trail, the mazes are filled with more Iggles and they can be collected right away. without having to take them along to a transportation point. When the player is out of lives, it is possible to continue in the Adventure Game mode, while a Game Over is final in the Retro Game mode. The game supports both local and global, online high scores.
