 For many years, the Italian Stromboli family made the best pizza in Europe, but now their business is threatened by assembly line products. The player need to help rebuild the family's empire by delivering pizzas as fast as possible.  The game contains three game modes based on the same principle. Shown from a top-down view, the player visits different cities where a certain number of pizzas need to be delivered. Before starting a game, the player can select the main topping to offer in that city. Each game, there are two or more pizza houses, one for each type of topping. At irregular intervals, icons with customers appear, requesting a pizza with a specific topping. The player needs to click them and take them back to the delivery house. For each delivered pizza, a tip can be picked up and after a perfect game a zeppelin dropping money appears.  By progressing through the game, new toppings can be unlocked and upgraded in four steps. For upgraded toppings, more of them can be collected at once before returning to a delivery house. The gameplay is spiced up through specific characters such as the celebrity that gives big tips when served in time, the clown that mixes up the order, a banker who collects the tips for the player, bums who can't make up their mind, a gossip lady who can change the orders of the other customers, and many more. There are also bad characters such as a thief or a prankster that need to be taken to the police station first. After a number of games, there is a bonus round where players need to recreate the different toppings on a pizza.  There are three main game modes to play. Speed mode is reflex-based and is played in real-time. Players need to pick up the orders and the tips as fast as possible. The second mode is Memory where the toppings for each customer need to be remembered as they are blanked out before the player can deliver them. The third mode is Simon Says, similar to the Memory mode, but also requiring a specific order of delivery. Players can also design their own pizzas based on the unlocked toppings and there are twelve different cities to play.
