For centuries, the people of MariGold have suffered under the rule of the Red Warlock, Zahgrim, making a once prosperous and happy place to live into an evil and depressive land. Zangrim had defeated the wizard Anakar the Wise by turning him to a stone statue before overthrowing King Tauraus. A hero is needed to defeat the evil warlock and return the peace and happiness back to MariGold - and you are that hero. You were an apprentice to a wizard called Goff but your training was cut short when he was killed by demons and with all the magic books destroyed your magic powers became limited. You have, however, discovered a parchment explaining that Anakar's six magical eyes have been scattered over the land and if returned to his statue, the secret on how to defeat Zahgrim will be revealed. You have to set out across the land looking for the eyes before making the journey to the warlock's castle and defeating him. Black Magic is an action game with role-playing elements. The main playing area is viewed from the side, with the screen scrolling in multiple directions when you move. You start your quest on the surface of the land as the class Apprentice, and you are armed with limited amounts of arrows and two types of spells, though more can be found as the game progresses. You must search the land on the surface and venture deep underground into areas connected by ladders on your quest. As you explore you will encounter many creatures, and if you are touched or shot by them you lose part of the health gauge; when it empties you die and it is game over. Food can be found scattered around and can be used to top up your health or stored on your person for later usage. As you progress and complete tasks your experience points increase. Collect a certain amount pf them and your class is promoted to Wizard and then to Sorcerer, before you become Necromancer, which is needed to defeat Zahgrim. The types of spells you have and use also increase when you move up a class. You will also encounter trapped prisoners who require freeing just by walking through them.
