Based on the 2007 Walt Disney Pictures film of the same name, 'Enchanted' for the Nintendo DS has the player embark on an epic quest with Princess Giselle in order to find her true love, Prince Edward. 

After an evil hag shoves Giselle down a wishing well, she winds up from her animated paradise in Andalasia to the bustling streets of New York City in the real world. After rushing through several unhelpful citizens of the Big Apple, Giselle comes across a divorce attorney named Robert, who reluctantly takes her to his apartment, while his daughter Morgan is delighted to have a princess on board. Meanwhile, Queen Narissa (stepmother of Prince Edward), fearful that Giselle will assume her place to the royal throne, is desperate to put an end to the fair princess once and for all, bringing her bumbling servant Nathaniel in the process. 

The player controls Giselle in an open-world environment using the directional buttons to make her run in the desired directions, the A button to perform cartwheels and B to jump. Throughout the game, Giselle will need the help of her Andalasian animal friends to progress through several obstacles, such as using the unicorn to break open locked doors, or even using the bear to activate switches scattered around. 

The Nintendo DS stylus is used for a variety of functions such as picking up items, scrubbing dusty areas, drawing shapes on the Touch Screen to activate Song Stages and so on.

Giselle also has a total of 6 different dresses at her disposal that grant her special abilities (such as the Light Blue Dress which allows her to walk across water for a limited time). These dresses can be upgraded at any time, allowing Giselle to use their powers for a much longer time period. 

Players can also collect Raw Materials scattered throughout the game and can trade them with each other by the use of DS Wireless Communications (via the Main Menu).

As part of the story, players also control Prince Edward in the same open-world manner as Giselle in his search, as well as her chipmunk friend Pip in mini sub-quests in the completion of each chapter.