During World War II a highly guarded compound has been photographed by a reconnaissance plane hidden in a forest. After many intelligent reports it has been discovered that under the compound is a research complex which is getting nearer to the development of a bacterial virus and a new type of rocket which when combined will cause devastation and disease. You and a team of four, have been tasked to parachute into the forest in the surrounding area of the compound to find it's location, then get in the compound before trying to enter the complex. Once in the compound you have to get the plans for the virus, rocket fuel and guidance system before finally blowing the place up. Once your mission has been completed you must then get to a rendezvous point to be picked up by a plane. Remember though, the surrounding areas have patrolling guards and the compound and complex are heavily guarded. Before you start you can pick from seven missions where each one is more difficult than the last one. The first mission is just to find the compound and photograph it while the last mission is where you have to actually blow up the complex and reach the rendezvous point. You then choose how long in hours (1-9 times ten) the mission will take before the plane arrives. Each movement in the forest is worth 20 minutes while inside the compound it is 2 minutes. Once you are happy with your selected options you must pick a team of four soldiers to attempt the mission with yourself. There are 30 skills to choose from in which you as the leader have all 30 but the other soldiers only have two of them. You are only aware of one skill for each soldier so you can interview each man to find the other skill or just select them. Each interview will take a day but you only have eight days before the mission starts. Once you are happy with your selections you then start the game. You view the forest from above with the whole forest shown on the screen. You cannot see any terrain but just the trees. You are shown as a flashing square and you can see any objects one place around you in the North, South, East and West positions. There are location's that can be found as you explore the area and they are caves, potholes, lakes or houses. These can be explored for any equipment that might be left there and next to the map of the forest is a map of the location you want to explore. You can only see so far in front so you have to move around to see more of the location's passages. Any items found can be picked up. Occasionally in the forest you will come across a patrol and these will need killing. To the right of the forest map again is a map of the area you are in showing your men's positions and the positions of the patrol. You then select which enemy soldier any of your soldiers will shoot at then move your soldier selected two places. You fire at the patrol and then they fire back. You then choose which soldier shoots who again and move them until all the patrol are dead or you have all been killed. Once you have found the complex, the screen shows an aerial view of the whole complex. Here you then attempt to complete what mission you picked at the start. It is now up to you how you want to enter the compound and move about remembering the guard patrols inside cannot be seen. If you manage to get into the complex without being discovered you move around the complex to complete the missions. Once you have fulfilled your objectives you must get out of the complex, then the compound and finally find the rendezvous point to go home. If you are captured you will be interrogated and shot.
