Timeman One is an educational game aimed at helping children tell the time.

The game screen consists of a clock to the right of which is a little man on a ladder. The game asks a series of questions which either require the player to state what time the clock is displaying or to move the hands of the clock to a specific time. If the player answers correctly the game displays a smiley face and the little man moves two steps up the ladder. If the answer is incorrect the little man moves down one step and the game displays a sad face but gives the player another chance at the question. If the second answer is incorrect the game shows the player the correctly answer before offering a new question. Each session is played until the little man reaches the top of the ladder when the game plays some happy music and the little man plants a flag and dances.

There are six games, 
Three 'Telling the Time' games;
The Hours game in which the game sets the time at something o'clock and the player must respond to the question 'What time is it? __ o'clock' by entering the correct number
The Minutes game in which the game shows a clock with the minute hand only and the numbers 5 - 60 on the outside. The minute hand points to a number and the player must answer questions such as 'How many minutes here? __ minutes' by entering the correct number
The Hours & Minutes game in which the game shows a regular clock with both hands. The player must answer questions such as 'Set the time to 20 minutes past 11 o'clock
and three 'Setting the Time' games
The Hours game in which the game gives the player a time and asks them to set the hour hand correctly
The Minutes game in which the game gives the player a time and asks them to set the minute hand correctly
The Hours & Minutes game in which the gives the player a time and asks them to set both the hour hand and minute hands correctly
The default time interval for all the above games is five minutes but the games can be made more challenging by setting the default interval to one minute. This option is available as an option from the main menu.

The game requires each player to sign in and it keeps a record of  their achievement which can be viewed from the main menu.