Ace Combat: Assault Horizon Legacy is a flight-sim / arcade fighter combat action game.  The game is typically played in a 3rd-Person, behind the aircraft, or 1st-Person, inside the cockpit view.  It features series mainstays such as numerous selectable aircraft and the ability to purchase parts and weapons to customize the fighters.  Where Assault Horizon Legacy sets itself apart from current console versions of Assault Horizon in that the gameplay is tipped more in favor of the arcade-style action of the early games in the series rather than focusing on flight-sim characteristics.  Also different from the console versions of Assault Horizon is that this entry takes place in the fictional universe of the older games in the series, rather than real-world locations.    The story concerns a rebel coup during a pinnacle treaty signing where the player takes the role of Phoenix in Scarface Squadron and must quell the uprising in a series of aerial, air-to-ground, and air-to-sea battles along with escort missions.  The game takes place in the same fictional world as previous entries concerning the Osean Federation, the Union of Yuktobanian Republics, and the Federal Republic of Erusea.  Aircraft in the game are both real, officially licensed planes, and fictional, and can be purchased and upgraded through progression of the story mode.  The game features voice acting in every area including dialog during combat, mission briefings, and story cutscenes.  As the story progresses and more planes are purchased, players must use strategic thinking in selecting their aircraft and weapons, perhaps choosing to sacrifice armor for mobility, mobility for speed, long-range missiles over air-to-ground missiles, and the like.    The scaled-back arcade-style gameplay has been designed to be friendly to the quick on-the-go gaming of the portable 3DS system.  As such, maneuvering is intended to be quick and levels may only last for a few minutes.  Players use the analog nub to move the aircraft, with the L and R buttons used for braking and accelerating respectively.  Brief, sharp turns and cornering are performed using both buttons and steering with the analog nub.  Rather than having to hone flight skills to dodge enemy attacks as seen in the console versions, here, players are given cues to dodge attacks and instantly correct flight angles to follow enemy planes.  When nearing an enemy fighter, the Maneuver meter in the bottom right of the screen fills, and when at least 50% full, players press the Y button to launch a brief cinematic sequence as the plane auto-maneuvers behind the nearest target.  When under attack, an onscreen warning briefly warns the player the direction to dodge, which is performed from a combination of a directional push on the analog nub and the Y button.     All gameplay is performed on the 3-D screen, which also features cinematics and mission briefings. During gameplay, the top screen also features the gameplay HUD with the altimeter and the Maneuver meter, as well as broadcasting warnings of incoming missiles.  Congratulatory statements also appear on the top screen during successful kills.  The bottom, or touch-screen, is where all other information is displayed, including a radar window, which is adjustable by pressing up or down on the D-Pad, and missile selection is displayed and performed by pressing left or right on the D-Pad.  Subtitles and aircraft status (health) are also displayed on the bottom screen.  No part of the gameplay is dependant on touch-screen controls.    Missions are scored and graded, and both the score and the timer both constantly run on the bottom screen during gameplay.  As players progress, they earn money (from score and kills), and experience that is largely used to increase in rank, but has no real effect during actual gameplay.    Besides the main story mode, there is also a Challenge mode with features such as Survival missions.  There is also a gallery where players may view planes, weapons, and items in the game and read information about them, as well as a gallery on the main characters in the game with information detailing their backstories.  Beyond this, players have the option to save up to 15 complete replays of missions to the SD card, which may be viewed from a variety of camera angles.    
