When you awaken in a mysterious prison you have no idea how you got there or why. Your great-uncle Titus will offer assistance from beyond in freeing you and himself from the puzzles of Azada. Find the pages of the book and you'll both be free.      Azada is a multi-puzzle adventure game where you must solve a bevy of different types of puzzles in order to collect painting fragments that will unlock the final puzzles to escape the room. The sorts of puzzles you will have to deal with range from many typical puzzle mini-games such as; a match game where you have to match different butterflies, a symbol-sudoku game, a sequence following game where you must remember the sequence of musical tones played, picture-puzzles where you'll have to use sliders, a game where you'll have to place arrows on the ground in order to lead a robot to the exit,  a game played against the AI where you'll try and complete squares while taking turns laying down lines, a match-stick moving game where you'll have to reduce a number of boxes, mazes, math puzzles and even a tower of Hanoi game.       The most unique puzzles of the game however are the ones that play similarly to graphic-adventure point-and-click games. You'll be given a stationary picture of a room with three or four objects to find in it. When you find these objects you will use them to uncover the pages of the Azada book in order to move to the next puzzle. For example you will need a pipe segment which you'll need to attach to a pipe you uncover while opening a cupboard and then when the pipe drains a number combination will fall out which you'll enter into a lock-keypad and so on and so forth.      There are over forty different puzzles and puzzles make re-appearances as you play along the game and will get more challenging as you encounter them further along. For example the aforementioned Towers of Hanoi will gradually go from four discs to transfer over to seven discs. There are  five master-level puzzle challenges to move through which are actually the pages of the Azada book where the forty+ puzzles are contained.
