A package arrives at your doorstep. Inside is a little green creature called Omnom, it's cute and loves candy!    Cut the Rope is a physics puzzle game. Each levels contains a piece of candy, hung up in one or more ropes. Slice the rope with the touchscreen and gravity causes it to fall down. The candy interacts with other contraptions on the stage, such as bubbles that lift it and new ropes that can catch the candy when falling. But you must watch out for spikes and other dangerous elements to avoid, as well as falling out at the bottom of the screen. The goal is to move the candy to your buddy Omnom to feed him.    The levels are divided in "boxes". Each level contains three bonus stars that you can grab by simply touching a star with your candy. The levels select screen shows an overview of the levels you have beaten and how many stars you've gotten. To unlock new level packages you need to obtain a certain number of stars. To get a highscore you also want to be as fast as possible, as a time bonus is added to your score when you complete a level.    The initial release had a hundred levels in four boxes: cardboard box, fabric box, foil box and gift box. Later updates added cosmic box with gravity reversal buttons, valentine box (released around valentines day 2011) with halve candy parts that must be joined together, magic box with magic hats that can teleport the candy, toy box box with platforms that make the candy bounce, tools box with saws that can be turned by the player, and buzz box with bees that hold ropes and move at a certain pattern. Even further updates (version 2.0 and above) split the whole game in three season and added more boxes: DJ box with gramophone records that can be turned by the player in DJ-fashion, spooky box with ghost that can be changed into different in-game objects by the player, steam box with controllable blasts of steam, and lantern box which allows for controlled teleportation of candy. Another addition is a number of Omnom's drawings that are hidden in the backgrounds of the levels.    
