Goal! Dive in to Inazuma Eleven 3: Team Ogre Attacks!, an exciting blend of RPG action and football exclusive to Nintendo 3DS!    Lace up those boots and get ready to take to the field in Inazuma Eleven 3: Team Ogre Attacks! on Nintendo 3DS family systems! This time, Mark Evans and the rest of the Inazuma National team face the tall order of reigning supreme in the Frontier International Championships and they also have to deal with a futuristic enemy that has travelled back in time to threaten the very existence of football!    80 years in the future, Mark Evans great-grandson Canon Evans encounters Team Ogre, who plan to travel back 80 years and defeat Inazuma National on the football field to change the course of history, which in their evil minds means creating a world without football! In order to foil these potentially devastating plans, Canon must come face to face with Mark so that they can work together to preserve the fate of the beautiful game, all while ensuring that Inazuma National remains on course to be crowned the greatest football team in the world.    Inazuma Eleven 3: Team Ogre Attacks! joins Inazuma Eleven 3: Bomb Blast and Inazuma Eleven 3: Lightning Bolt as part of the Inazuma Eleven 3 series, each playing out the same storyline from the viewpoint of a different character with distinctive rivals. Team Ogre Attacks! contains over 2,000 characters to encounter and recruit, and over 350 special moves to pull off that have the potential to dramatically alter the course of a match, including players and a number of special moves exclusive to this version. Bolster the strength of your squad by using Ogre Premium Link to connect with Inazuma Eleven 3: Lightning Bolt or Inazuma Eleven 3: Bomb Blast and scout special players and receive items not available through normal gameplay.    Success on the field means maximising the skills of each player in a starting line-up, with the ability to roll out special tactical team plays that involve the whole team, and a shot chaining system where players can combine special moves from different teammates to launch devastating attacks on goal. After all, Mark Evans and friends will need to perfect all the moves at their disposal in order to defeat Team Ogre and go for glory!    Encounter a futuristic enemy looking to eradicate football from the course of history and take to the pitch alongside Canon Evans, the great-grandson of Mark Evans in Inazuma Eleven 3: Team Ogre Attacks!, only on Nintendo 3DS family systems!
