Luna, a college student studying horticultural magic, returns home to Nevernear and discovers everything in ruins. Her friends and family have been frozen inside mysterious black crystals, and all of the beautiful buildings and castles are in shambles. Only by finding and planting the seeds of magical plants can she find out what happened to everyone and attempt to restore the city.    Jewel Match 3 is the first in the series to incorporate a full story. It features many elements from its predecessors, but also has improved graphics and dynamic visual effects and sounds.    After the introduction, choose the type of game to play from three selections. Normal (timed) and Relaxed (untimed) are built around the adventure storyline, while Match3 Maniac skips the story and lets players dive right into "match 3" timed levels.    In all games there are several objectives. All of the tiles with a gold background must be cleared, and all of the magical items must be collected. Obstacles include tiles with chains, wood, and silver "unpolished" surfaces, some of which must be matched two or more times. Most levels consist of multiple rooms as well, and all of those rooms must be completed. Collect a red key, for instance, to unlock an area in a different room locked with red blocks. Some magical items and keys are hidden underneath other tiles.    Tools to help with tile matching and removal come in the form of eight magical spells which are introduced gradually and have three strengths.  To use the spells, fill Luna's mana bar by collecting green bottles from the puzzle levels. The destructive hammer, like in other Jewel Match games, also has three power levels. Match four or more tiles to receive a multi-color flower tile which matches any of the jewels. Matching five or more gains a gold arrow-shaped "helix" row blaster.    The adventure games (Normal and Relaxed) have features in addition to an evolving story. There are hidden object and jigsaw puzzle mini-games, a shop where in-game coins can be spent, and the rebuilding of castles which can be saved as desktop wallpapers when completed.    The game has 100 levels. It is possible to finish an adventure game in less than that number. If that happens, the player is given bonus levels so that all 100 can be played.
