Fight evil robots as the heroes of the animated TV series in Tenkai Knights: Brave Battle on Nintendo 3DS and 2DS.    Experience the rush of robotic power in shape-shifting action game Tenkai Knights: Brave Battle on Nintendo 3DS and 2DS! Based on the animated TV series, prepare to bring the big guns - and swords! - into play against the villainous Vilius and his Corrupted Army. Can you stop him before he annihilates two entire planets?!    When teenagers Guren, Ceylan, Chooki and Toxsa discover a rip in time and space, they arrive on planet Quarton, transformed into shape-shifting hero robots known as the Tenkai Knights! As Bravenwolf, Tributon, Lydendor and Valorn, their legendary prowess is put to the test when the rogue robot Vilius sets his sights on destroying both Earth and Quarton.    Through explosive 2D, side-scrolling action, battle hordes of transforming mechanoids using each heros unique skillsets. There are stacks of strategies to employ, like Bravenwolfs nifty slides and slash attacks, or you can get to grips with Tributons deadly crossbow - perfect for picking off distant enemies! Better yet, Valorn can mash foes near and far, while Lydendor takes down bots with high-speed strikes. Robofusion Mode lets you combine with an ally to boost your powers, as you fight side-by-side for a set time.    As you carve and blast a path to victory, youll get to use parts from defeated enemies to forge new equipment. With over a hundred customisation parts to discover, customise your character to improve statistics such as Dash, Range and Boost, and tweak them to fit your play style. Exploit enemy weaknesses or adapt to different terrains across the stages, then engage Titan Mode to beat the big bad boss, one-on-one!    In addition to Story Mode, you can get together with up to three mates in VS Mode via Local Play to bash the bricks off each other in robo-tastic rumbles. So shape-shift into action and prepare to save not one but two worlds in Tenkai Knights: Brave Battle on Nintendo 3DS and 2DS!    -Play as your favourite characters from the animated TV series to save the world from Vilius robotic wrath!  -Take parts from downed enemies to create unique equipment to suit your play style  -Experience the action alone or with an ally - fight through story missions, then battle your mates in VS Mode!  -Use the Touch Screen to track your enemies and use items
