Tetris Ultimate is a reworked version of the original Tetris falling block puzzle game, for modern platforms. The available game modes are Battle, Battle Ultimate, Endless, Marathon, Sprint, and Ultra.  Battle is a versus mode against the computer or another player. There are four difficulty levels for the computer.    Battle Ultimate is a versus mode that introduces power-ups to clear lines, have the grid scroll sideways, explode blocks, or shower opponents with blocks to remain the last one standing. Power-ups are gained by clearing lines that have symbols.    Endless lets you play up to level 30, with a faster speed for each new level.    Marathon is the classic mode where you need to clear a number of lines to reach a new level with faster speed, with fifteen levels in total.    Sprint is about clearing 40 lines as quickly as possible.    Ultra provides three minutes to achieve a high score.Not all game modes are available right away. Endless for instance is only unlocked after completing Marathon. Multiplayer is supported both offline and online, for up to four players and game types such as Marathon or Endless. Players can also work together or co-op or in a team to clear lines on a grid that is larger than the standard one. There is a leveling system with belts based on the player's performance, also used for online matchmaking. The core gameplay remains unchanged. Pieces can be moved left and right, drop quickly, or are rotated. The next piece is shown and it also possible to hold on to one to use it at a later time. The game includes an in-game store for additional content and generates a Tetris Self diagram, an AI-controlled version of your playing style and performance friends can play against when you are offline. By enabling Tetris Live you open up your games for other players to join. Game options include enabling hold pieces, using the 7-bag or the classic selection for tetrominoes, toggling wall kicks and T-spins, and altering the time it takes for a piece to lock into place on the grid.    The 3DS version is largely identical to the other platforms in content, but there are some differences. Exclusive to the 3DS version are four challenge modes:  Escalation: similar to Marathon or Endless, but each new level requires more lines to complete.  Invisible: tetroninmoes become invisible when they are locked on the grid.  Master: regular gameplay, but tetronimoes do not appear at the top, instead they appear instantly at the bottom.  Rotation Lock: you cannot rotate tetronimoes.The later PS Vita release has three additional game modes: Haunted, Landslide and Time's Up.
