	When man first invented time travel, he did not realize the full extent of the dangers which world accompany it. To counteract these dangers, TIME was established to watch over the time-lines and the people who used them.    Usually, TIME agents patrol the time-lines, making sure that no one interferes with events or alters the course of history. On this occasion, however, your mission is to track a renegade agent whose purpose is to causing disruptions in the space-time continuum, by patrolling the time-lines and switching artifacts between different zones. If left unchecked, these chronologically misplaced artifacts can cause massive disruptions through time, resulting in the large-scale destruction of the time zones, as well as having dire consequences for mankind.    As a time lord, it is your responsibility to reverse the damage caused by the TIME agent and end his plans by finding and replacing the offending artifacts. For assistance, you have the use of a space craft known as the "Falcon's Wing". Partially controlled by CAIN (Cybernetic Artificially Intelligent Nexus), it performs different functions that include giving out information about the residents and artifacts to be found in the time zone, and notes any disturbances that have been detected. The ship is also used to travel to these time zones. You can leave the ship once you have arrived at the time zone.    Equipped with laser gun and a jet pack, you explore the time zone while searching for any artifacts. When found, these can be picked up by walking over them and pressing the fire button. Only one artifact can be carried at any given time, so whatever it is you are carrying must be returned to the correct chronological period.    In each time zone, you are constantly under attack by the inhabitants of that era, but the inhabitants can be destroyed with your laser gun. Extra powers can be gained by collecting tokens that randomly appear. There are two types of these. "Power of Will" immobilizes inhabitants for a few seconds, and "Thinkstrike" gives you temporary invisibility.    You only have a limited amount of time in each zone. Your stamina decreases each time you get hit by an inhabitant, and when your stamina is severely depleted, you are returned to the Falcon's Wing and a time period is incurred. The mission ends when your stamina is reduced completely, or when the time limit for the mission has expired.
