	Molar Maul is a single player game in which the object is to score points by fighting tooth decay. In this game the score starts at 1600 and the player seeks to keep it as low as possible.    The Plot  Scientists have established that the teeth in the mouth are under constant attack from a form of bacteria called Dentorium Kamikazium (a.k.a. DK), a bacteria that destroys teeth while destroying itself. It has been learned, however, that though DK appears to die DK in fact it does not. DK now appears to be indestructible, it rejuvenates and comes back to do more damage.  Recent research has developed a new chemical, DKX 11, which interrupts the DK rejuvenation cycle and can extend the life of the tooth by 90    The game  The player has three toothbrushes / lives and an unlimited supply of Imagico, a toothpaste containing DKX 11.  The game screen is an open mouth. Sweets and other goodies appear in the centre of the mouth causing the DK's to wake up and start attacking teeth.   The player manouvres the tooth brush onto the toothpaste tube where a squirt of Imagico is applied, then the toothbrush is used on the teeth under attack to repel the DK's    Gameplay  The game screen consists of an open mouth with 32 teeth..   Teeth start out white and change colour as they are attacked, moving through the colours to black when they are destroyed.  At the top of the screen is the current score, represented as a 'decay level', and which starts at 1600. This decreases whenever a tooth is cleaned and increases whenever a tooth is attacked. The initial condition of the teeth is yellow, not white, so when the game starts the player already has work to do.    On the top right of the screen is a green bar indicating how much toothpaste is left in the tube.  In the centre of the mouth is a red area where the DKs live. It is here that sweets and things appear causing the DKs to become active and attack the teeth.  Below this area is the current toothpaste tube to which the toothbrush must be applied before it can be of any use.
