	Ready Steady Go is a series of mini games for one or two players and can be played by keyboard or joystick.   The mini games must be completed in order and, in single player mode the computer provides an opponent and a qualifying score must be achieved before you can progress to the next game.    Game 1 - Track Hurdling  In this game the player(s) must hit left and right action keys in order to build up speed around a track. As a hurdle is approached the player(s) hit the 'Fire' key to make their player jump. The race is is over five laps and there is no need to steer or guide your player around the track, the game does that for you.     Game 2 - Canoeing  The objective is to row four lengths of the course within a qualifying time and to remain afloat at the end. The course is spread over two 'flip screens' that partially overlap and the player(s) must negotiate both hazardous rocks and a current.  As in all these mini games the players must hit left and right action keys in order to build up speed with, in this game, the added complication that holding down an action key is also how you steer.  In two player mode, player one rows first and keeps on rowing until they have qualified. Player two's turn commences when player one has qualified.    Game 3 - 3D Track Cycling  The objective is to complete 12 laps within a qualifying time. There are three lanes in which the player can ride with the outside lane being the fastest. There are some basic rules. A player cannot change lanes if that position is occupied. Going to fast into a bend increases the likelihood of a skid, and hitting an opponents bike from behind gives them a speed boost and causes the player to slow down.  As with canoeing, the left and right action keys are used both to gain speed and to steer.    Game 4 - 3D Penalty Saving  The player starts in goal and must face 10 penalty strikes. There are seven different directions in which the player can dive, and two different speeds. The goalie can dive before the goal is kicked but can only dive once.  As with the other games, player 1 goes first and this players turn is repeated until enough shots are saved then, if in two player mode, player two gets a turn.
