	Transylvanian Tower is a single player maze game in which the player must explore five levels of Count Kreepie's castle, kill him, and find his stash of loot.  The castle has over five different hundred rooms to explore. Some contain items that can be used but the inventory is limited to only three items at any one time, and this includes weapons, so it's important to collect just what's important. The items/weapons available are- the golden ring, an invisible cloak, a magic apple, a special floor plan, a clove of garlic, a mirror, a knife, a mirror, a dagger, a sword, a silver cross and your gun - which is limited to 10 shots.   If the player is killed at any time on level 2 and beyond, the game is over and they are returned to the start of level one.    Level 1-  This is an exploration level. A floor plan may be obtained at any time by pressing the 'h' key.    Level 2-  On this level the player will encounter bats and objects. Bats are bad things and must be killed. If enough bats are killed the player will be transported to level 3. If insufficient bats are killed the player will be transported to a random room on level 2. There are sealed rooms and it is possible to be transported into one. Fortunately one of the objects encountered is a magic ring that allows the player to move through two walls, so it is advisable to carry this to avoid having to replay the game.  The 'h' key can again be used to view the floor plan, but this time it's only available when a bat has been killed.    Levels 3 and 4-  These play as level 2 but all bats must be shot through the heart    Level 5-  This is where the evil Count Kreepie resides. Only one off the items you come across will kill the count. This, as the game says, "will force you to find all the objects so you can try them out". After killing the count you will receive a map showing where his treasure is, but you must still fight the bats on the way there.    The game can be saved when necessary, but only after thirty minutes of gameplay. Control is by cursor only. Keys 5-8 move the player in the appropriate direction, key 6 rotates the character 90 degrees to the left, so pressing the 6 key twice means you're retracing your steps. Transfer between levels can take up to two minutes because a new maze is generated for each game.
