EA SPORTS Active 2 with Total Body Tracking will include the innovative EA SPORTS Active heart rate monitor that provides constant on-screen monitoring, allowing users to capture intensity and optimize performance over time.Users will also be able to track and share their workout data online through automatic uploading from their online connected console to their personalised EA SPORTS Active profile.* Built-in Heart Rate Monitor ? Track your heart rate on screen in real-time with the innovative EA SPORTS Active heart rate monitor to capture intensity and optimize performance over time. The heart rate monitor sits comfortably on your left forearm and does not require a chest-strap. * Wireless Motion Tracking ? The EA SPORTS Active2Total Body Tracking wireless system uses motion sensors in leg and arm straps along with the Wii® remote to register movement and provide complete freedom of motion.* Take Your Workout Online ? Track your progress on the web via the EA SPORTS Active online global community. EA SPORTS Active 2tracks your fitness data online via automatic uploads to your online profile and allows you to share your data and connect with other users through workout groups - all while reaching your own personal fitness goals. * 70+ Exercises and Activities ? Create unlimited customizable workouts with over 70 exercises and activities to choose from, including foundational exercises like squats, lunges, and bicep curls and fun fitness activities such as mountain boarding, basketball, and boxing. * Enroll in the 9-Week Program ? Designed by certified personal trainers, the EA SPORTS Active 2 9-week program provides total body conditioning using progressive exercise. It provides a fitness roadmap to help keep users motivated and on track of their fitness goals. Additional mini-programs will also be available to add on, keeping workouts fresh and inspiring.* Built-in Personal Trainer ?Your personal trainer will be there by your side every step of the way to guide you, motivate you, and create the most effective custom workouts based on your needs. * Wii Balance Board Compatible ? Add new challenges to your routines with the Wii Balance Board. (Balance Board not included)
