Step into the shoes of the greatest adventurer of all time! You are the legendary hero Indiana Jones embarking on a perilous quest for the Staff of Moses. To outrace your rival, you will explore the jungles of Panama, brawl through the streets of San Francisco?s Chinatown and escape a daring chase in Istanbul on an elephant. Grab your Wii Remote and get set on a thrilling adventure in the classic Indiana Jones tradition. Wield your Wii Remote? like Indy?s signature whip for a variety of uses ? from combat to navigation to puzzle-solving. Use your highly interactive Hot Set? environments and your wits to defeat your enemies. Explore exotic locations around the globe in an all-new story that puts you on an epic quest for the Staff of Moses. Apply your smarts to navigate Indy through challenging terrains with the many maneuvers Indy can do with his whip. Engage in burst gunplay moments and use careful aim and the environment to take out enemies. Face overwhelming odds and escape signature run-for-your-life moments, like a daring escape from a collapsing temple, by matching fast-paced onscreen gesture prompts. Experience thrilling chases and control vehicles ? fly a biplane in a canyon trench, take the reigns of a wild elephant through the streets of Istanbul and navigate a raft down a raging river. Cooperative gameplay mode allows you and a friend to brave the challenges in a variety of game modes in an entirely new quest with a familiar character never playable before in an Indy game. Unlock four-player versus mode where you and your friends go head-to-head in a real biplane combat or take on three of your friends in a free for all tank battle! Whether you are brawling baddies or wielding your whip, use the Wii Remote and Nunchuk? as nature intended with the intuitive gesture-based combat system. Discover more than 20 artifacts and rewarding unlockables throughout the game. For those old-school gamers there is nothing better than unlocking the classic Indiana Jones and the Fate of Atlantis game!
