With more Europeans discovering American football every year, EA has embraced accessibility as a key feature of its Madden franchise. The previous game in the series introduced motion controls, but Madden NFL 08 is taking accessibility to the next level ? and brings it online to boot.To make American football an easier experience, EA has instituted the Family Play option. This control scheme, which can be turned on or off at any time, lets the computer take control of some of the details, letting you focus on the unique Wii Remote controls. Much like Wii Sports, players don?t control the movement of the players, only the actions like passing the football, evading tacklers by performing a stiff-arm or spin move and kicking. With only Wii Remote motions required, it?s a great way to get newcomers into the game, while more advanced players can attach a Nunchuk for complete control.Another favourite from last year?s game gets a big update in Madden NFL 08: Party Mode lets you pick a Mii and play up to three others in a variety of ways. Play Now let?s you quickly take on opponents, Mini-Games offers more than 20 motion-controlled mini-games and Trivia allows you to find out who knows most about the NFL. Every game you play affects your Mii?s ranking, adding a nice element of competition.For those who like to enjoy the full Madden experience, the biggest addition to this year?s game is that of online play. For the first time on a Nintendo platform, gamers can go head-to-head in Exhibition games and match up against other American football fans around the world, with a live sports ticker keeping you informed up-to-the-minute on scores and updates.? Players with advanced American football knowledge can take advantage of the new Read and React System. Player Weapon icons identify their on-field strengths and weaknesses, providing an immediate read on what your opponent is giving you. Quickly react, create mismatches and exploit opponent weaknesses before every play.? All-new player moves, including auto-motion, backward passes and low-hitting tackles, plus ultra-smooth gameplay provide the most realistic NFL gaming experience ever.? Like John Madden himself, use the telestrator feature to draw on the screen and point out your friends? mistakes when you earn a replay? Take on an army of tackling dummies in an all-new skill drills mini-game designed to teach you the game of American football. A progressive learning system teaches you how to use game controls under pressure, while advanced and multiplayer modes allow you to fine-tune your skills or challenge a friend to a head-to-head competition
