Boomshakalaka! It?s baaaaaaaaack? EA SPORTS NBA JAM? revives the classic franchise with vintage NBA JAM gameplay, and all-new features that deliver a fresh new take on the game. Featuring the sights and sounds that fans of the franchise will instantly recognize, EA SPORTS NBA JAM mixes the old school with the new, to deliver a one-of-a-kind sports presentation on the Wii. Shoves, spins and of course, backboard smashing dunks take centre stage with classic two vs. two gameplay that lies at the core of NBA JAM. - Choose from all new motion controls, flip the controller on its side, or plug in the Classic Controller or Classic Controller Pro and jump in using classic controls and play with a roster of current NBA players, NBA legends and a few special appearances on the hardwood. With a distinct art style, NBA JAM brings photo realism to the Wii. Unmatched player likeness and reactions exaggerate the outrageous moves that make up the core JAM experience, elevating the already intense gameplay to new heights. With modes aplenty, classic JAM gameplay, and loads of characters and unlockables, you?ll see why the revival of NBA JAM is a slam dunk.Classic NBA JAM Gameplay ? Fast paced two on two action is what lies at the core of the NBA JAM experience. Take on a defender one on one, and pull a last minute spin as he goes to shove you. Throw an alley-oop to your teammate as he comes down with an on fire, backboard smashing dunk.Multiple Control Schemes?Whether you prefer to shoot using the Wii?s motion controls, or by pressing a button, NBA JAM gives gamers the chance option when it comes to control schemes. - Choose from motion controls, classic controls or plug in the Classic Controller or Classic Controller Pro, and dominate the hardwood on your termsTwo Campaign modes??Want to experience some nostalgia? - Then pop into Classic campaign mode to get exactly what you remember from NBA Jam. Looking for something a little bit different? Jump into the Remix Tour and experience an all-new twist on Jam ? choose your own path to glory as you participate in game modes that you might not expect and face off against some of the biggest legends in the sport.Player Likeness?Witness as the past and future collide in the visuals of NBA Jam. A distinct art style that screams Jam from the moment you boot up the game is mashed with the most realistic player likeness ever seen on the Wii (or perhaps on any console), creating a presentation that is unlike anything you?ve seen but yet is strangely familiarUnlock this or Unlock that ? Complete Jam Challenges to unlock game modes to characters, to secret teams and Special Courts, NBA Jam will feature a whole lot of content for you to unlock as you progress thru the game..Boss Battles?They are some of the greatest players to have ever played the game of basketball. They are legends that will not go down easy. They are standing in your way and you need to get by them. Jump into a unique take on the Jam franchise with boss battles. The best players doing what they do best. They will frustrate you with their skills, but you have to beat the best to be the best.All 30 NBA Teams and more??- The top three players, as chosen by the fans, from every NBA team in the are featured in NBA Jam, but that?s not all. Over 100 unlockable teams, characters, privileges, and mascots will also be playable.Tim Kitzrow ? The original voice that captured the attention of a nation is back voicing all the classic lines you remember from the original NBA JAM, as well as a host of new ones, including some created by fansMultiplayer Goodness ? Go at it alone or jump into the multiple multiplayer options available in NBA JAM. With two on two co-op play throughout the campaign mode, as well as two on two head-to-head competition, there are lots of ways to share the NBA JAM love.
