PES 2010 for the Nintendo format will share the cover stars in Lionel Messi and Fernando Torres. And will also boast the extensive additions to the Master League via the integration of UEFA Champions League license elements, while the Wii game's graphic elements have been further enhanced. However, Producer Akiyoshi 'Greyhound' Chosogabe and his dedicated team have also worked to add key gameplay advances to the new iteration.Likewise, a decisive addition to PES 2010 is an all-new game balance system that affects both attacking and defensive elements of the game. The player in possession now has 'instantaneous stamina' in addition to his overall stamina, which prevents unbeatable runs from being used as a constant tactic. Overuse of sprinting will have an adverse affect on the player's body balance and their immediate control of the ball. As in a real match, excessive attempts of trying to gain possession will drain the player's stamina, further demonstrating the Wii game's realism.Proper and timely controls within the context of match have also be given more importance. More fine and strategic controls have been given more significance, and an attacking player with the ball can perform various 'AI feints' to bypass the opposition defenders while dribbling - but is in accordance with the player's abilities. Defenders will also have to think of which areas to close down from, and work with other players to reduce the space attackers have.Greyhound has also worked hard on a new free kick system, wherein these set pieces are now viewed from the kicker's perspective and targeted using a pointer system, allowing users to add swerve and additional pace to their kicks, dependent on the taker's abilities. This level of control even allows players to move their keeper earlier in a match against human player.New animations will see players signaling for passes, and the slickest animation in a PES title on Wii yet, while the Champions Road and Master League modes mark a welcome return again. "The stakes have been raised and PES 2010 for Wii shows that Konami can still innovate and surprise," commented Akiyoshi 'Greyhound' Chosogabe. "Our control system for Wii is still regarded as the finest and most intuitive around, and we have once again reworked it to add a level of control and realism that can appeal to new and old PES fans alike."
