Harness the power of falling meteors and restore the Planet Roo to its former glory in shape-shifting DS puzzler Roogoo Attack!    Once upon a time, Roo was a happy and peaceful place, sustained by Magical Meteors that fell from the sky. As time passed, some of Roo s inhabitants (the Meemoos) began to abuse the power of the meteors in the name of greed . plunging the planet into darkness and devastation.     Thankfully, all is not lost. Taking the side of the planet s good guys . the Roogoo . you hold the power to foil the Meemoo s corrupt plans by putting to work a combination of quick thinking and quick reflexes.     As Magical Meteors fall to Roo s surface, your job is to rotate floating land masses with the L and R Buttons of your DS, clearing the way for the meteors to arrive safely. Not only will you have to make sure these floating land masses are aligned correctly to get the Magical Meteors through, you ll also have to account for obstacles and enemies determined to throw a spanner in the works. As you progress through the game, the meteor blocks will begin to come thick and fast . making the task of saving Roo trickier by the minute!    Roogoo Attack! features over 100 levels to test your puzzle-solving prowess, all set in one of ten colourful 3D environments that span both screens of your DS. And if you re looking for an extra challenge, there is a way to unlock a range of brand new levels. As well as Roogoo Attack! on DS, there is another game in the Roogoo series available for Wii; Roogoo Twisted Towers. If you own both games, you can wirelessly connect your DS to your Wii to unlock an offering of taxing new puzzles in both games.    Further adding to the longevity of Roogoo Attack! are six different multiplayer modes that invite you to compete against friends even if they don t own a copy of the game. Whether you compare your meteor manipulation skills in Meemoo Attack, Anvil Attack, Air Mine or one of the other challenges on offer, you ll have to think even faster than usual to get the best of up to three other opponents.    Solve puzzles with high stakes in Roogoo Attack! The future of Roo depends on you!    Enjoy over 100 puzzling levels as you try to clear the way for Magical Meteor shapes to land on the Planet Roo.  Challenge up to three friends in six different Multi-Card Play and Single-Card Play games.  If you own Roogoo Attack! for Nintendo DS and Roogoo Twisted Towers for Wii, you can unlock new levels in both games by connecting the two consoles wirelessly.
