From Capcom?s 30-year history comes characters like Ryu and Chun-Li from the Street Fighter series, Morrigan from Darkstalkers and company mascot Mega Man Volnutt from Mega Man Legends. Tatsunoko?s near half-century of Japanese animation excellence is represented by the likes of Ken the Eagle and Jun the Swan from the Science Ninja Team Gatchaman anime (known in Europe as Battle of the Planets or G-Force), cybernetic warrior Casshan and comedic action hero Yatterman No. 1. All together, there are more than 20 colourful combatants to choose from in order to form the ultimate tag team combination.Gameplay will instantly set fighting game fans? fingers twitching, combining elements from Capcom games like Street Fighter and previous entries in the VS series, TATSUNOKO VS. CAPCOM ULTIMATE ALL-STARS is a fun fighting game designed for all levels of players. Players choose from the combined roster of fighters to create their favourite two man/woman/cyborg/robot tag team, rotating on the fly between the two players throughout the course of each match. Those new to the genre will appreciate the game?s bright visual style and simplified four-button fighting controls. Hardcore Capcom fighting fans will dig in to the game?s depth, uncovering huge Aerial Rave combos and unique Variable Assists, gorgeous Ultimate Hyper Combos, and Variable Combinations that combine the capabilities of two members of the player?s tag-team to unleash huge damage. ? More than 20 fighters to choose from:o Capcom: Ryu, Chun-Li (Street Fighter), Batsu (Rival Schools), Alex (Street Fighter III), Morrigan (Darkstalkers), Soki (Onimusha: Dawn of Dreams), Mega Man Volnutt (Mega Man Legends), Roll (Mega Man), Saki (Quiz Nanairo Dreams), Viewtiful Joe, PTX-40A (Lost Planet) and more to be announcedo Tatsunoko: Ken the Eagle, Jun the Swan (Science Ninja Team Gatchaman), Yatterman, Doronjo (Yatterman), Casshan, Tekkaman, Polymar, Karas, Ippatsuman and Gold Lightan, plus others to be revealed.? Possible additions to the game: the team is exploring adding new Capcom and Tatsunoko characters as well as online gameplay.? Two-man tag team action: Players build their own perfect team and use Assist Attacks and each character?s special moves to create their own unique fighting style.? Four button fighting controls: Easy-to-understand four button control scheme opens gameplay up to new players with familiar movements and combos? Depth of gameplay: Once the basics are mastered, players can go deeper into the fighting game controls to master Aerial Rave air combos, Delayed Hyper Combos, Mega Crash defensive moves, Assault attack moves and the Baroque extended combo system.? Fast-paced action and huge attacks: Each characters has a unique arsenal of moves, including spectacular Hyper Combos that literally take over the screen with devastating results.3D characters, 2D fighting gameplay: As in Street Fighter IV, TVC: ULTIMATE ALL-STARS has bright, 3D rendered characters battling it out in familiar 2D style.
