Product Information Experience the true thrill of skateboarding as never before through the revolutionary new skateboard controller in Tony Hawk: Ride. Bundled with the Ride game the unique motion-sensitive board controller redefines the action-sports genre by translating your body motions into the game. No buttons no thumbs no analog sticks—just you on the board. For the first time in video game history anyone can jump on a skateboard and feel the freedom creativity and accomplishment of skateboarding.Fans of board sports will love the authentic experience of the board controller while the intuitive nature of the board and multiple difficulty settings make it a fun and exciting experience for people of all ages and skill levels. The ease with which anyone can pick up and play this game and each player s unique playing style make this a fun social game for friends and family to play together. So are you ready to Ride?All About the Board Using full motion sensing technology the intuitive skateboard controller allows players to physically control the action by performing various movements and gestures on the board that directly translate into amazing tricks seen in the game. Closely resembling a "deck"--a board without wheels or trucks which allow actual skateboards to maneuver their boards--the Ride controller is built around a bi-nation of flat and rounded surfaces. Along the majority of the boards upper surface as well as the middle center portion of its bottom players will find flat level surfaces that provide for players  balance. This is countered by the rounded edges along the top at either ends as well as the bottom outer edges. These allow for true to life trick performance mechanics which allows gamers can experience a full range of movement as they rotate tilt and lift the board in a variety of ways to discover every trick in the game.In addition the Ride board es with features designed to maximize ease and continuity of play. These include an upper surface texture
