Games 1, 2, 3 and 4 are one-player games. You compete against the computer. You score one point for every Hangman Word you complete; the computer scores one point for each Hangman Word you can't complete.

GAME 1:
One player competes against the computer that uses words from a first through third grade vocabulary.

GAME 2:
One player competes against the computer that uses words from a first through sixth grade vocabulary.

GAME 3:
Playing with words from a first through ninth grade level, one player competes against the computer.

GAME 4:
Words from a first through high school vocabulary are used for competition between one player and the computer.


Games 5, 6, 7 and 8 are two-player games against the computer. After you select the game vocabulary you want to use, you and your opponent take turns selecting alphabet letters to find the word generated by the computer. Both players together are allowed 11 incorrect selections. When you make a correct letter guess, you receive a consecutive turn. The first player to complete the Hangman Word scores one point and starts the next word. The first player to score five points wins the game.

GAME 5:
Two players compete to complete the Hangman Word from a first through third grade vocabulary.

GAME 6:
Two players test their word skill with Hangman Words from a first through sixth grade vocabulary.

GAME 7:
Words from a first through ninth grade vocabulary are used for competition between two players.

GAME 8:
Two players compete using words from a first through high school vocabulary.


GAME 9:
Now it's your turn to choose the Hangman Word. Instead of playing with a computer word, one player composes the Hangman Word with the Joystick Controller; the opposing player receives eleven guesses to complete the Hangman Word.

To enter your own Hangman Word into the computer, cycle through the alphabet letters on the screen while your opponent avoids looking at the screen. The Hangman Word may be between one and six letters.
