"I dropped out of hyperspace near the

edge of the galaxy, the sharp light of stars

glinting on the metal hull of my Calurian

Cannon Ship.

Before me the massive Forts of Falnon,

defence and refueling stations, hang

ominously in the void reminding me of the

message I received.  A shiver crawls up my

spine.

The message had asked for help, finishing

with sounds of panic, of equipment falling

and finally an abruptly cut off scream.

I check my instrumentation and move

towards the nearest Fort.  I can see some

debris floating near it, the docking bay

doors are open.  Closer now, I can see

bodies adrift in the docking bays.  The inner

hatchways are gaping wide, a little frozen

air smeared on the doors.  The other Forts

are in the same condition.  I switch my

radio on, wide open on all frequencies;

there are no voices, only the static hiss of

the stars.  The Forts of Falnon are now

tombs to the people that worked on them.

A Warning light strobes in the controls

before me, a message flashes onto the

screen.  "Unidentified Alien Intruders".  The

ship computer processes all incoming data

and a display appears before me of the 

intruders battle formation and the relative

positions of myself and the Forts.  A

confusion of alien sounds from the radio

assaults my ears and I breath in sharply at

the sight of them, sweat breaks out on my

forehead.

I manouevre my Calurian Cannon Ship to a 

position beneath one of the Forts.

Through a port I can see arms twitching

back and forth as the fleet of intruding

aliens lower towards me.  Suddenly a

curling cord of energy drops from one of

the aliens and blossoms into a feverish

explosion on one of the Forts of Falnon.

More writhing cords of energy drop, like a

plague of coiling fluorescent cobras ...

I swing my ship into action dodging to and

fro beneathe the Forts sending bolts of

Caluric fire lasering upwards ...

With massive spherical explosions I paint

the black of space with clouds of debris

from the destruction of intruding aliens.

One of the intruding crafts shimmers and

distorts, mutating through lethal unstable

forms, I move and fire ...

A command saucer crosses above the 

fleet, a gibber of instructions coming from

the speaker of my radio.  The Intruders

descent, accelerating; dodging back and

forth I move and fire, move and fire ..."
