Floating Cloud God Saves the Pilgrims is a Playstation Mini game for PSP and Vita.  

Floating Cloud God Saves the Pilgrims is exactly that, a 2D shooter built around the eponymous deity (controlled by the player) and his quest to protect eight pilgrims in their journey across perilous territories.

Your own shots just knock their hats off, but getting hit by anything else will kill a pilgrim and send their spirit floating off with a sad little wail. This is bad not only because the pilgrims are a de facto health bar (losing them all ends the game) but powering up Cloud God depends on harvesting their love - juicy little hearts that pop up whenever you kill an enemy and increase in size as you blast more.

You must get all of the love (given form as hearts) that they release, which then makes you much more powerful than you already are. You increase in size, look more menacing, and your attacks are more powerful. The pilgrims get the most excited when they witness ambushing ghosts and ghouls get annihilated by you. When they are excited, they produce more love, meaning more power to you.

However, you have to be very careful when shooting. You grow weaker with every shot, so try not to channel your inner war-freak and have a little restraint, for the good of both yourself and the pilgrims. You also lose some of your steam if you get hit by enemy forces. And sometimes, the situation calls to for you to sacrifice your mightiness and provide cover to the pilgrims from the enemy assault with your own self.

There are two types of attack: the normal shot (by pressing X), and the bomb shot (by pressing Circle). The direction of the normal shot depends on what direction you are pressing, so there is some strategy to what part of the screen you should be shooting from. Being too far from your pilgrims is very dangerous but allows you to cover more ground, while launching a full frontal assault can protect your pilgrims by absorbing all the incoming fire. You have to think through, in real time, what tactics you would like to employ. You can always get in the middle, then rush forward, then get to a safe distance; mix and match, and you got yourself going.

The bomb shot is used if you are above the enemy. But that’s not all, as some enemies can’t be killed with the bomb shot, only with the normal shot, and vice versa. There are also enemies where you have to inflict bomb shot damage first before switching to the normal shot to take them out.

Enemies