HoopWorld is an action sports basketball game in arcade style where two teams of three face themselves in a match against each other to defend their home courts.  The goal of the game is to get the highest score by scoring baskets in a set amount of time. The player controls one team of three characters. He runs, passes the ball, fights, kicks, and punches characters of the opposing team, steals the ball from them, and performs dunks in order to win the match. These actions are performed with a Wii Remote and a Nunchuk controller. During a match so called Mystery Boxes will appear randomly on the court. Running over them will pick them up and reveal one of eight available power-ups that influence game play and enable players to protect their team or their basket with a shield, increase energy, or drain points from the opponents score.  The basketball courts are set in outdoor locations, such as a jungle, the inside of a volcano, a tropical island, a Greek village, a desert, and a dark forest. Each court has a two point, three point and a four point scoring zone, the further away from the opponents basket, the higher the points are when scoring a basket from distance. There are several teams the player can pick from, such as a Goth team, Samba Girls, Archaeologists, a Wild Western team, a group of Mercenaries, or Alien Robots.   HoopWorld can be played alone against the CPU, or together with a friend. There are three different game modes. The Quick Match allows a short session. In Tournament Mode the player plays through all available courts, and winning matches in Tournament Mode unlocks screens, teams and courts in Quick Match Mode. There is also a Survival Mode, which is an endless mode where the player keeps on playing until he loses. In this mode the AI gets increasingly more difficult. Once the player loses in this mode, his scores from all matches played in this session are accumulated, and the player can choose to upload this score to an online leader board. Next to three different game modes, there are four difficulty levels, that players can choose from. Those range from easy to crazy.
