Tetris Party is a WiiWare edition of the traditional game of Tetris in a variety of modes, and it also introduces new modes such as Co-op Tetris and Duel Spaces. The standard tetris mode has a ghost shape at the bottom of the screen so you can see where the block will land, you can see the next four blocks and you can hold a block for later use.  In single player you can choose Marathon, Computer Battle, Field Climber, Shadow and Stage Racer.  Marathon is an endless game where you have to get as many lines as possible. Computer Battle is the same except against a computer opponent. Field Climber is a Lemmings-like, similar to the gameplay in Tetris Plus. A tiny person walks at the bottom of the screen, you have to help him climb all the way to the top by laying out blocks to form stairs, but be careful not to squash him. Shadow is a game where you have to fill in a shadow figure with blocks. You have to try to make a perfect overlap with no blocks outside the silhouette. In Stage Racer you have to manoeuvre a single block down a vertically scrolling screen. Move and rotate it so that it doesn't get stuck, because when it touches the top of the screen it's game over.  Multiplayer offers the following games: VS Battle, VS Field Climber, VS Hot Lines, VS Shadow, Co-op Tetris and Duel Spaces.  VS Battle, VS Field Climber, VS Hot Lines and VS Shadow are all battle versions of the single player games. You can gain power-ups that temporary freezes the opponents game or temporary stops them from rotating their blocks. In VS Hot Lines you have to clear certain lines indicated in green, which are typically not at the bottom of the screen. Once you clear a green line it disappears, clear all green lines to win the game. Co-op Tetris and Duel Spaces are both played in a larger area, 20 blocks wide. In Co-op Tetris two players work together to form lines. In Duel Spaces two players take turns dropping tetrominoes. Each player must try to seal off sections in the grid and capture as grid space as possible.  You can also play online in World Battle or Friend Battle using Wi-Fi, and you can play using the Wii Balance Board.
