 Camp California is the second and last game based on the short-lived multimedia property of the same name, featuring a group of anthropomorphic animals who are the official mascots of surf rock group The Beach Boys.  In the game, the gnarly surfer dudes of the Camp California crew find that their favorite beach has been sold to a villain called the Big Cheese who plans to build a nuclear power plant in the area. The gang's plan: hold a benefit concert to raise enough money to buy back the beach. Unfortunately, the Big Cheese gets wind of the plan and sends his henchmen, the Ratz, to kidnap the crew, steal their instruments and take the tires off Woody, the gang's trusty vehicle. Luckily, Byron the bear was out surfing while this happened, and it now falls to him to rescue his friends and get back the tires and the instruments.  The game is a side-scrolling platformer consisting of nine levels, with such areas as a beach, a junkyard, an amusement park, an army base and a mall. The levels are reached via an overview map of California that players drive along in Woody. To start the car, the tires must be found in the first level. All other levels then contain instruments or members of the crew to rescue. At the start, players can only control Byron, but once a new friend has been rescued, they can be selected to be played at the beginning of a level. All characters differ in abilities. Byron punches and kicks to defeat enemies while Lil' Bro (the star of the previous game) uses his skateboard to skid or jump on top of the bad guys. Shred can turn into a tornado, Pouch headbutts and is also the only one who can swim underwater, and Scream'r uses a boomerang and is the only one who can fly.  Besides many enemies (mostly the Ratz gang, but also robotic dogs and other critters) the levels include recyclables to pick up, like soda cans and banana peels. When a level is completed, the trash is converted into fuel for Woody. If the fuel runs out on the overview map, the car can only be restarted at the loss of a life. 
