In Electroplankton players interact with various "plankton" to create "media art". Using the DS touch screen, microphone, and other input methods, you can make the plankton to react, creating numerous audio and visual experiences.  There are two modes Performance and Audience. In Audience, the plankton will perform for you, as long as you see fit, or your battery will allow. In Performance you can interact with the plankton and create your own audio-visual show.  The Various Plankton are as follows   1. Tracy: You will have several plankton. They will move along lines you draw for them, their speed varying on how quickly you drew the lines. The sound they create changes depending on their speed and where they are on the screen.   2. Hanenbow: These little creatures launch out of a small body of water and bounce off the leaves of plants. Depending on the levees they bounce off of they will create different sounds.   3. Luminaria: You will have four plankton on a grid. Each has a different speed. Depending on what point on the grid they hit they will make a different sound. Arrows on the grid, that you can alter, will determine where they move.   4. Sun-Animalcule: You place these little creatures on the screen and they will grow. As the become larger they will create different sounds.   5. Rec-Rec:  Using the mic you can record four samples that then replay with various drumloops.   6. Nanocarp: These little plankton move about the screen randomly, they will alter how they move according to what you input. Touching one will make it "pling" and clapping twice will make them swim in a circle.   7. Lumiloop: You spin them around. They glow and make sound according to the direction and speed.   8. Marine-Snow – Each of these plankton will make a tone when touched, and move about.   9. Beatnes: Plays NES music and you can create repeating NES-esque music by touching the plankton on various parts of their bodies.   10. Volvoice: This plankton will record you voiced and the play it back in different ways.
