Nintendogs lets you take care of virtual pets (dogs, obviously) on your Nintendo DS. You can train your puppies by speaking commands into the microphone, pat the pooch with the stylus, play games like as "fetch" with a Frisbee, buy toys, food, and accessories, and take part in competitions to win trophies.  If there are other Nintendo DS users with Nintendogs nearby with both of you in "Bark Mode", you can link the games wirelessly and see both dogs on the same screen.  You initially only have 6 (US/EU), 5 (JP) of the 18 (US/EU), 15 (JP) breeds available when you start playing the game (the six breeds being determined by which version of the game you buy), but as you progress, you unlock more breeds and items to buy. If you connect with another user that has another breed of dog not available to you then their dog's breed will be unlocked for you.  The available versions to purchase are:  Japanese Versions:  1. Chihuahua &amp; Friends: Beagle, Cavalier King Charles Spaniel, Chihuahua, Labrador Retriever, Shih Tzu. 2. Miniature Dachshund &amp; Friends: German Shepherd, Miniature Dachshund, Miniature Schnauzer, Pug, Yorkshire Terrier. 3. Shiba &amp; Friends: Miniature Pinscher, Pembroke Welsh Corgi, Shetland Sheepdog, Shiba Inu, Toy Poodle.  North American and European Versions:  1. Chihuahua &amp; Friends: Boxer, Cavalier King Charles Spaniel, Chihuahua, German Shepherd, Shetland Sheepdog, Yorkshire Terrier. 4. Dachshund &amp; Friends: Beagle, Golden Retriever, Miniature Dachshund, Pug, Shih Tzu, Siberian Husky. 5. Lab &amp; Friends: Labrador Retriever, Miniature Pinscher, Miniature Schnauzer, Pembroke Welsh Corgi, Shiba Inu, Toy Poodle. 6. Best Friends Version (North America - bundled with DS): Beagle, German Shepherd, Golden Retriever, Labrador Retriever, Miniature Dachshund, Yorkshire Terrier. 7. Dalmatian &amp; Friends: Dalmatian, Boxer, German Shepherd, Golden Retriever, Yorkshire Terrier, Beagle.  In addition to all the breeds listed above, there are two more breeds that can be unlocked through various ways.
