After failing to kidnap the Mario Bros. in the original Yoshi's Island, Kamek the Magikoopa has decided to set his sights higher.  Instead of just kidnapping the famous brothers, he's sent an army of his toadies out to kidnap children across the world!  Luckily, Mario avoids escape, and again lands in the hands of the Yoshis.  It's up to the Yoshis to carry Mario across Yoshi's Island and rescue Luigi and the other babies.  Yoshi's Island DS is a sequel to the SNES game, Yoshi's Island.  In it, players control Yoshi as he travels to Kamek's castle to rescue Luigi.  Yoshi can carry Baby Mario, Peach, DK, Wario or Bowser on his back - depending on the baby carried, Yoshi will gain a special ability; for example, Mario lets Yoshi dash, Peach allows Yoshi to float for a longer period of time, and Wario whips out a gigantic magnet to attract coins and other metallic objects.  If Yoshi is hit by an enemy, a counter appears, and begins to slowly count down to zero.  If it reaches zero, the baby is kidnapped, and Yoshi loses a life.  Yoshi can increase his counter by collecting stars that are rewards for some puzzles and defeating certain enemies.  Another feature of Yoshi's Island DS is the ability to hurl eggs to defeat foes.  Yoshi can eat nearly every enemy - if you press down on the control pad when Yoshi is holding an enemy in his mouth, he will turn it into an egg.  Yoshi can hurl his eggs at enemies and objects such as certain walls to destroy them.  You can even pick up coins and other collectibles by throwing an egg at them.  Finally, Yoshi can ricochet eggs off walls to hit things that he would otherwise be unable to reach.  While the object of each level is to simply reach the end, avid gamers will aim to get 100% for each level.  To do this, they must reach the end of each level with thirty stars, find the twenty red coins hidden amongst the regular ones, and collect the five flowers in each level.  One special  "Character Coin" is also hidden in each level - these have a picture of a particular baby on them, and can only be collected when Yoshi has that baby on his back.
