 The game Bobo is an cartoon style arcade game. The main character is Bobo - controlled by you - he is an inmate and has been sentenced for 17 years. In this game inmate Bobo must do many chores, such as peeling potatoes, ladling soup to his fellow prisoners, helping his fellow prisoners to escape, jumping electric wires and singing lullabies to his snoring cell mates.  Besides playing all events it is possible to select and play just one event. Up to six player can play this game by entering their names. They play alternating not simultaneously  Each event can be played by joystick or keyboard. The specific moves you have to make vary from event to event but it come basically down to moving the joystick or keyboard keys fast from left to right. To pick things up you have to move the joystick downwards keyboard arrow key down. Tossing things is done by moving the joystick up when using the keyboard you have to press cursor key up.  Below you 'll find a brief description of each event:  Bobo has a job in the prisons canteen. He must serve soup to the other inmates and keep their soup plates full. To do this Bobo must move around the tables. When his supply of soup is empty he must refill it at the top of the screen where a new supply of soup is available. If his fellow inmates demand more soup they  start banging and hammering on the tables. The score of this event is based on how many plates of soup he hands out.  Peeling potatoes is not Bobo's favorite chore but he has to do it. He has to pick up a potato, then peeling it and when that's done tossing it away. Bobo scores points based on the number of potatoes he has peeled. If a potato is not fully peeled it will be tossed back.  In the next event Bobo must help his inmates to escape prison. The inmates are jumping out of their cell windows and it is Bobo's task to get them over the prison wall by moving a trampoline around.  The score is based on how many inmates actually can escape. Bobo must be sure to catch the inmates under the right angle with his trampoline because if he fails the inmates will crash into the prison wall.  Finally, Bobo found an way to escape prison. He must jump from wire to wire and as the wires are electrified he must take care not to be electrocuted. The score in this event based on how long Bobo can prevent being electrocuted. Bonus points can be earned by picking up the green objects that appear occasionally on the wires  In the last event Bobo has been captured by the police and returned to his cell. He can't sleep because his cell mates are snoring and to stop it he has to sing lullabies to them. He has to climb the beds and not wake his cell mates by stumbling around his cell. When all cell mates are fast asleep Bobo himself must go to bed to get some rest himself. The score in this event is based on the time Bobo is actually able to sleep himself.
